5	The cosmos is perfect, you know. Its laws are divine, its timing flawless, its design unique.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom||6	I've experienced reincarnation without losing my identity. I experience my identity that goes through the string of beads. And I never became the bead totally. Many people experience reincarnation as one bead and then another bead and then another bead. I experience it as a thread.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|7	If you live completely each second, you will experience many days inside each twenty-four hours.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|8	Selfless service to mankind makes you free in the world of mortals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Basic Life Skills,Facing Life|9	Be free from the past; abide in the present; detach yourself from the future; and live in the eternal now. Evil has no source, unless the source of evil's seeming be ignorance itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|10	When the intellect is prominent, arrogance and analytical thinking preside. When the superconscious soul comes forth, the refined qualities are born—compassion, insight, modesty and the others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|11	When we encounter wickedness in others, let us be compassionate, for truly there is no intrinsic evil.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|12	When through meditation, we view the universe from the inside out, we see that there is not one thing out of place or wrong. This releases the human concepts of right and wrong, good and bad.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom,Meditation|13	It is the interplay between our experience and how we respond to it that makes karma devastating or helpfully invigorating. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|14	The whole world is an ashram in which all are doing sadhana. We must love the world, which is God's creation. Those who despise, hate and fear the world do not understand the intrinsic goodness of all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Sadhana|15	As the light cannot detach itself from its rays, Lord Siva cannot withdraw Himself from His creations.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|16	So great is the Sanatana Dharma that it defies all who doubt it, all who disdain it, all who disregard it, all who degrade it, with personal realization of its Truth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|17	The Saiva Siddhanta perspective is that Siva's wonderful universe of form is perfect at every point in time, complete and totally just, and every soul, in all stages of evolution, is an intrinsic part of it, even Siva himself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism,Siva|18	What is the binding force that keeps youths in the home? Love. If you love your children completely, they won't want to leave. You won't be able to force them out of the house, even if you try. You are bound together by bands of steel made of love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|19	Self Realization is finding That which is beyond even superconsciousness itself, beyond the mind—timeless, causeless, spaceless.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|20	Become more humble. Become more self-effacing. Become more loving and understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Sadhana|21	Those who are free from the past remember the future and move the forces of all three worlds for a better life for themselves and for all mankind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|22	When the philosophy is properly understood, we possess right thought, right speech and right action, which is proper behavior. This is culture.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Hinduism|23	Conceit is a sure sign of insecurity; humility denotes  awareness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|24	Beginning to meditate can be likened to starting a long journey. The destination and the means of travel must be known before setting out.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|25	To accept one's karma and the responsibility for one's actions is strength. To blame another is weakness and foolishness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|26	Purity, devotion, humility and charity are the four keys to good conduct. Of these, purity is the cardinal virtue. We cultivate purity by thinking, speaking and doing only that which is conceived in compassion for all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|27	Our religion tells us that because we love God Siva, we love one another, for God Siva loves all of us. Our religion tells us that God Siva is like a father and a mother, not a vengeful God, but a God of love who helps us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|28	In the end, the Great Mystery is known as one, as two, as neither one nor two.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Hinduism|29	All you have to do is to watch your mind think. Then and only then are you experiencing your perfect state of inner being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|30	This is one of the great benefits awarded a yoga student working in the guru system: his opportunity to identify with the intuitive mind of the guru.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|31	The guru helps the devotee to hold his mind in focus, to become pointedly conscious of thought, word and deed, and to cognize the lessons of each experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|32	All of the mysteries of life will unfold before your inner vision once the instinctive mind is mastered in your life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|33	The experienced meditator seeks out the unwholesome areas within himself, endeavoring to expose and rid himself of each knot of karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Meditation|34	Sitting in a state of real meditation, one must be more alive and alert than a tight-rope walker suspended without a net on a taut cable three hundred feet above the Earth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Yoga,Realm of Knowledge,Meditation|35	Meditation can be sustained only if one lives a wholesome life, free from emotional entanglements and adharmic deeds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|36	Most people try to experience God through other people. Disciples see a guru as God. Wives see their husband as God. Devotees see the Deity in the temple as God. But all the time, behind the eyes of their seeing, is God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|37	There is no death and there is no birth for the immortal body of the soul that you are, that pure intelligence that goes on and on and on and on and on and on.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|38	Your recognition of what is is the way you create it to yourself. This is deep. This is in the realm of contemplation. And only in the realm of contemplation will you begin to conceive of it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|39	Contemplation is man's power over his mind as he begins to go within himself. Concentration is man's power over his mind as he goes through life working out life's problems. And meditation is man's wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|40	The teachings of yoga are so basically simple and so basically concrete. And the most beautiful thing in the world, on contemplation, is the simplest thing in the world. The most beautiful design is the simplest design.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|41	Every single brick added to a temple made of brick brings that temple closer to completion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|42	The conquest of karma lies in intelligent action and dispassionate reaction.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|43	Siva's devotees bask contentedly in Siva consciousness, seeing the pure life energy in every person, animal, bird, reptile, fish, insect, plant, tree and even microscopic intelligence as Supreme God Siva Himself. Aum.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|44	Siva's devotees cultivate a contemplative nature by meditating daily, seeking the light, drawing the lesson from each experience and identifying with infinite intelligence, not with body, emotion or intellect. Aum.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Sadhana|45	Siva's devotees accept all experiences, however difficult, as their self-created karma, without cringing or complaining. Theirs is the power of surrender, accepting what is as it is and dealing with it courageously. Aum.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|46	Ignorance is equally distributed throughout the planet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|47	The body of the soul is constant radiance. Its mind is superconsciousness, containing all intelligence, and is constantly aware, does not sleep and is expanding awareness as the soul body matures.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|48	Sometimes you may experience stressful moments during your daily sadhana. They will soon pass, never to reappear, so do not be worried.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|49	Never allow yourself to be complacent in your spiritual attainments. Always continue to strive. Even rishis, swamis and yogis who have totally realized Parasiva continue to work on themselves from within themselves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|50	In the final analysis, we are all doing exactly as we want, as we must, doing what is next on our personal path of evolution. Nothing is wrong. Nothing should be that is not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|51	Siva is very close to each and every one of us. Siva's mind permeates all of us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|52	Saivites all over the world love God Siva. God Siva loves His devotees. For each step the devotee takes toward Siva, Siva takes nine steps toward the devotee.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|53	The worship of Siva will give you wealth. The worship of Siva will give you health. The worship of Siva will give you knowledge. The worship of Siva will fill your heart with love and compassion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|54	Are not all persons on this planet driven by desire? Yes, indeed. Then let's redirect desire and let our desires perfect us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|55	Our saints have sung that Siva is within us, and we are within Siva. Knowing that, fear and worry and doubt are forever gone from our mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|56	You become everything when you merge in Siva, but you are no longer you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|57	The Self, the realization of God, Parasiva, is immanent now within everyone, only realizable according to the soul's evolution, which can be hastened through the practice of yoga.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|58	God has no names, but all names are the names of God. Whether you call Him this or that, He remains Who He is.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|59	Siva is the Self of your self. He is closer than your own breath. His nature is love, and if you worship Him with devotion you will know love and be loving toward others. Devotees of God Siva love everyone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|60	Accept your karma as your own, as a healing medicine and not a poison.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|61	That is the goal of life, to know Siva, to love Siva and to find union in Him, to dance with Siva, live with Siva and merge with Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|62	Siva is the God of love and nothing else but love. He fills this universe with love. He fills you with love. Siva is fire. Siva is earth. Siva is air. Siva is water. Siva is ether.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|63	"Siva's will be done"—the first sadhana on the path. "Siva's will be done"—the last sadhana on the path, after all others have been perfected.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|64	Give yourself in to the real you. Turn your mind inward. Turn your will inward and live that glorious spiritual life and be ready as a spiritual being to meet the experience of death.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|65	When the mind is disturbed, it is outwardly strong. The mind that is not disturbed is inwardly strong. Your inner strength is always more dependable than your outward display of strength.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|66	Recognizing that all experience is but a fading dream, you are closer to the permanence within you that never changes. You can sense it. It is God. It is Siva. It has never changed. It will never change.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,The Self|67	Yes, the Saivite home is a factory, an intricate mechanism manufacturing spiritual unfoldment for every member of the family.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|68	The common bonds uniting all Hindus into a singular spiritual body are the laws of karma and dharma, the belief in reincarnation, all-pervasive Divinity, the ageless traditions and our Gods.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism,Gods|69	This is why we are born on this planet, to evolve through challenges. We are here for no other reason.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|70	Be mature about it when you give something up. The immature spiritual person will want everyone else to give it up, too. The spiritually mature person quietly surrenders it because it is simply his personal choice and then goes on with his life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Sadhana|71	A home is a place that's so magnetic that it's difficult to leave. In a home there is love, kindness, sharing and appreciation, and the inhabitants help one another. It's a place of selflessness and togetherness, where everybody has time for everybody else.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|72	My advice to parents has always been to stay close to their children, but at the same time give them some space to grow and mature in today's world. Today's world is not all that bad.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|73	Stop the war in the home. Use positive discipline. Praise your children. Discover the good things that they do and tell them how well they have done. Celebrate their Divinity. Enjoy them and enjoy good times with them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|74	Don't let anyone take your religion away from you. We have to keep developing religion in our mind. We have to keep learning the language of our soul, which is one definition of religion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|75	We cannot hurt another without getting hurt back in the future through some other way, generally through other people not even associated with the person we hurt.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|76	I can tell you from experience that zero tolerance for inharmonious conditions is a workable law and sadhana that can and should be adopted by all spiritual groups and individuals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Construction|77	A life of discipline is not an easy life, but it is a joyous one, with many soul-satisfying rewards.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|78	Affectionate detachment is stronger than any attachment could possibly be, because attachment is created through unfulfilled desire, salted and peppered with fear.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|79	There is a great wisdom in cultivated affectionate detachment. Let go of the past. Let go of the future. Be a being right now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|80	All mystical phenomena and deep religious experiences come from the superconscious. It is the mind of light, beautiful and vast.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|81	A family provides toys for the children to make them happy. Siva provides karma and dharma to all of us to make us happy, to bring us closer to Him.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Siva|82	How do we practice contentment? Simply do not harm others by thought, word or deed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|83	Life is meant to be lived joyously. There is in much of the world the belief that life is a burden, a feeling of penitence, that it is good to suffer, good for the soul. In fact, spiritual life is not that way at all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|84	Hope for a future life makes this life worthwhile, joyous, contented and happy, because the Hindu can live and deal with current problems, knowing that they are transitory problems, that they will not last forever; nor will they affect us forever.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Hinduism|86	Devotees seek a satguru who teaches them to understand suffering, and brings them into the intentional hardships of sadhana and tapas leading to liberation from the cycles of experience in the realm of duality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|87	Sins are the crippling distortions of intellect bound in emotion. When we sin, we take the energy and distort it to our instinctive favor.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|88	Hell is not eternal. Nor is there a Satan who tempts man and opposes God's power, though there are devilish beings called asuras, immature souls caught in the abyss of deception and hurtfulness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Hinduism|89	The superconscious mind, the mind of our soul, knows and inspires good conduct, out of which comes a refined, sustainable culture.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|90	God is with us always, even when we are unaware of that holy presence. He is His creation. It is an extension of Himself; and God is never apart from it nor limited by it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|91	It takes as much time for a hardened heart to soften as it does for a piece of ice to melt in a refrigerator.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Humor|92	It is by means of worship of and meditation on God that our self-created sufferings are softened and assuaged. God is the God of all—of the believers within all religions, and of the nonbelievers, too.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Worship,Siva|93	God does not destroy the wicked and redeem the righteous; but grants the precious gift of liberation to all souls.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Karma,Hinduism|94	Dharma is God's divine law prevailing on every level of existence, from the sustaining cosmic order to religious and moral laws which bind us in harmony with that order.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|95	Every form of life, every group of men, has its dharma, the law of its being. When we follow dharma, we are in conformity with the Truth that inheres and instructs the universe, and we naturally abide in closeness to God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|96	All Hindus feel they are guests on the planet with responsibilities to nature, which when fulfilled balance its responsibilities to them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Hinduism|97	The key to discovering and understanding personal dharma is the worship of Lord Ganesha, the God of memory, time and wisdom, who knows our past lives and can clarify our most perfect pattern, our right path in life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Gods,Facing Life|98	We should be uplifting to our fellow man, not critical or injurious. We should be loving and kind, not hateful or mean.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|99	When heart and mind are freed of baseness, when desires have been tempered and excesses avoided, dharma is known and followed, and good conduct naturally arises.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|100	The Hindu fosters humility and shuns arrogance, seeks to assist, never to hinder, finds good in others and forgets their faults.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Hinduism|101	Good people are the best teachers of good conduct, and should be sought out and heeded when we need help or advice. Talk with them, the wise ones, and in good judgment be guided accordingly.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|102	To the Hindu the ground is sacred. The rivers are sacred. The sky is sacred. The sun is sacred. His wife is a Goddess. Her husband is a God. Their children are devas. Their home is a shrine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Hinduism|103	Even the intent to injure, even violence committed in a dream, is a violation of ahimsa.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma|104	The belief in the existence of God everywhere, as an all-pervasive, self-effulgent energy and consciousness, creates the attitude of sublime tolerance and acceptance toward others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Siva,Hinduism|105	Every belief creates certain attitudes. Attitudes govern our actions. Our actions can thus be traced to our inmost beliefs about ourself and the world around us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|106	A healthy society is based on honesty, openness, love, trust and goodwill.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|107	Meat-eating contributes to a mentality of violence, for with the chemically complex meat ingested, one absorbs the slaughtered creature's fear, pain and terror.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|108	Man's appetite for meat inflicts devastating harm on the Earth itself, stripping its precious forests to make way for pastures.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|109	Peace is the natural state of the mind. It is there, inside, to be discovered in meditation, maintained through self-control, and then radiated out to others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|110	The best way to promote peace is to teach families to be peaceful within their own homes by settling all conflicts quickly.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|111	Even the poorest Hindu practices charity according to his means.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Sadhana,Hinduism|112	Saivites consider it most important to live near a Siva temple, and we build one wherever we find ourselves in the world. This is a most meritorious act, earning blessings in this life and the next.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Hinduism|113	The outer worship is approaching God properly, presenting ourselves acceptably. It is to offer our love, our adoration and then to speak out our prayer, our petition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Siva|114	The inner worship is to enjoy God's presence and not rush away, to stay, to sit, to meditate awhile and bask in the shakti, endeavoring to realize the Self within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Meditation,The Self|115	The stone or metal Deity images are not mere symbols of the Gods; they are the form through which their love, power and blessings flood forth into this world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Gods|116	We never outgrow temple worship. It simply becomes more profound and meaningful as we progress through four spiritual levels.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship|117	Through temple worship, the three worlds become open to one another, and the beings within them are able to communicate. By means of the mystical arts of puja, the worlds act in concert, and prayers are received.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship|118	Among the most intimate, personal forms of communication is the written prayer to the devas or to God. Burned in Agni's sacred fire, it disintegrates in the physical world and quickly re-forms in the astral world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Gods|119	God's presence is everywhere, through everything, in everything, for Siva is the creator of all things, the manifestor of time, form and the space between forms.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|120	Every Saivite home centers around the home shrine, a special room set aside and maintained to create a temple-like atmosphere in which we conduct puja, read scripture, perform sadhana, meditate, sing bhajana and do japa.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship|121	The sannyasin balances within himself both the male and female energies. Complete unto himself, he is whole and independent. Having attained an equilibrium of ida and pingala, he becomes a knower of the known.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|122	To transcend the mind and reach the ultimate goal, seekers need the guidance of a satguru, an enlightened master who has followed the path to its natural end and can lead them to the Divine within themselves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|123	Nothing is more precious than the first soul-quickening, life-changing shaktipata from a guru. Nothing is more central to spiritual awakening than the progressive dikshas, or initiations, he bestows.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|124	A satguru is needed because the mind is so cunning and the ego is a self-perpetuating mechanism. It is he who inspires, assists, guides and impels the shishya toward the Self of himself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|125	The satguru is the devotee's spiritual guide and preceptor, friend and companion on the path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|126	Having become religion's consummation, the satguru can see where others are and know what their next step should be.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|127	Namah Sivaya has such power, the mere intonation of these syllables reaps its own reward in salvaging the soul from bondages of the treacherous instinctive mind and the steel bands of a perfected externalized intellect.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|128	Sages declare that mantra is life, that mantra is action, that mantra is love and that the repetition of mantra, japa, bursts forth wisdom from within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|129	"Aum Namah Sivaya," the Saivite chants. Aum Namah Sivaya feeds his soul, brightens his intellect and quells his instinctive mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|130	On the lips of Saivites throughout the world resounds the proclamation "God Siva is Immanent Love and Transcendent Reality." It is a statement of fact, a summation of truth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|131	Monists, from their mountaintop perspective, perceive a one reality in all things. Dualists, from the foothills, see God, souls and world as eternally separate. Monistic theism is the perfect reconciliation of these two views.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|132	God is transcendent and immanent, eternal and temporal, Being and becoming, Creator and created, Absolute and relative, efficient and material cause.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|133	The soul consists of an uncreated divine essence and a beautiful, effulgent, human-like form created by Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|134	There is no intrinsic evil. God Siva has created the principle of opposites, which are the means for the soul's maturation—beauty and deformity, light and darkness, love and hate, joy and sorrow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Siva|135	All is God Siva Himself, in Him and of Him. A perfect cosmos has issued forth from a perfect Creator.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|136	Vedic rishis have given us courage by uttering the simple truth, "God is the Life of our life."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Wisdom|137	Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole. Our energy and God's energy are the same, ever coming out of the void. We are all beautiful children of God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|138	We have taken birth in a physical body to grow and evolve into our divine potential.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|139	The peerless path is commitment, study, discipline, practice and the maturing of yoga into wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|140	Service leads us to understanding. Understanding leads us to meditate deeply and without distractions. Finally, meditation leads us to surrender in God. This is the straight and certain path, the San Marga, leading to Self Realization—the inmost purpose of life—and subsequently to moksha, freedom from rebirth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|141	Sadhana allows us to live in the refined and cultured soul nature, rather than in the outer, instinctive or intellectual spheres.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|142	We begin to consciously dance with Siva, to move with the sacred flow that surrounds us, to accept praise and blame, joy and sorrow, prosperity and adversity in equanimity, the fruit of understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|143	For consistent progress, sadhana should be performed regularly, without fail, at the same time each day, preferably in the early hours before dawn.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|144	Because Self Realization must be experienced in a physical body, the soul cycles back again and again into flesh to dance with Siva, live with Siva and ultimately merge with Siva in undifferentiated oneness. Yea, jiva is actually Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Siva|145	To the Saivite Hindu, all of life is sacred. All of life is religion. Thus, Saivite art is sacred art, Saivite music is devotional music, and the Saivite's business is not only his livelihood, it is his service to man and God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Hinduism|146	Through pranayama, through mantra, through tantra, wielding an indomitable will, the last forces of form, time and space subside, as the yogi, deep in nirvikalpa samadhi, merges into Parasiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|147	God Siva knows in infinite, all-abiding, loving superconsciousness. Siva knows from deep within all of His creations to their surface. His Being is within every animate and inanimate form.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|148	So loved is Siva-Shakti that all have an intimate relationship. So vast is His vastness, so over-powering is He that men cringe to transgress His will. So talked of is He that His name is on the lips of everyone—for He is the primal sound.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|149	Lord Ganesha was created as a governor and interplanetary, intergalactic Lord. His knowledge is infinite, His judgment is just.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods|150	All Mahadevas, minor Gods, devas and sentient beings must worship Ganesha before any responsible act could hope to be successful. Those who do not are subject to their own barriers. Yea, worship of Him sets the pattern of one's destiny.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods|151	This Lord of Obstacles prevents us from hurting ourselves through living under an incomplete concept or making a request unneeded or beginning an endeavor not well thought out.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods|152	The holy vel is our release from ignorance into knowledge, our release from vanity into modesty, our release from sinfulness into purity through tapas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods|153	From an absolute perspective, our soul is already in nondual union with God, but to be realized to be known. We are That. We do not become That.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Siva,Wisdom|154	Karma is the law of cause and effect, action and reaction governing maya. Anava is the individuating veil of duality, source of ignorance and finitude. Maya is the classroom, karma the teacher, and anava the student's ignorance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Meditation|155	Moksha comes when earthly karma has been resolved, dharma well performed and God fully realized.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|156	Karma is not fate, for man acts with free will, creating his own destiny. The Vedas tell us, if we sow goodness, we will reap goodness; if we sow evil, we will reap evil.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|157	Not all karmas rebound immediately. Some accumulate and return unexpectedly in this or other births.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|158	Performing daily sadhana, keeping good company, pilgrimaging to holy places, seeing to others' needs—these evoke the higher energies, direct the mind to useful thoughts and avoid the creation of troublesome new karmas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Sadhana,Facing Life|159	After death, we continue to exist in unseen worlds, enjoying or suffering the harvest of earthly deeds until it comes time for yet another physical birth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|160	We neither fear death nor look forward to it, but revere it as a most exalted experience. Life, death and the afterlife are all part of our path to perfect oneness with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|161	Death is a most natural experience, not to be feared. It is a quick transition from the physical world to the astral plane, like walking through a door, leaving one room and entering another.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|162	Before dying, Hindus diligently fulfill obligations, make amends and resolve differences by forgiving themselves and others, lest unresolved karmas bear fruit in future births.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma,Hinduism|163	God Siva created us. He created the Earth and all things upon it, animate and inanimate. He created time and gravity, the vast spaces and the uncounted stars. He created night and day, joy and sorrow, love and hate, birth and death.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|164	As supreme Mahadeva, Siva wills into manifestation all souls and all form, issuing them from Himself like light from a fire or waves from an ocean.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|165	This physical world, though necessary to our evolution, is the embodiment of impermanence, of constant change. Thus, we take care not to become overly attached to it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|166	The causal plane is the abode of Lord Siva and His entourage of Mahadevas and other highly evolved souls who exist in their own self-effulgent form—radiant bodies of centillions of quantum light particles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Siva|167	It is an error to say that the universe is mere illusion, for it is entirely real when experienced in ordinary consciousness, and its existence is required to lead us to God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|168	Goodness and mercy, compassion and caring are the intrinsic, inherent or indwelling nature of the soul. Wisdom and pure knowledge, happiness and joy are the intrinsic nature of  the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|169	Yes, bad things do happen. Still, the wise never blame God, for they know these to be the return of man's self-created karmas, difficult but necessary experiences for his spiritual evolution.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma,Wisdom|170	Whenever we are injured or hurt, we understand that our suffering is but the fulfillment of a karma we once initiated, for which our injurer is but the instrument who, when his karma cycles around, will be the injured.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma|171	Man is blinded by his ignorance and his concern with the externalities of the world. He is caught, enthralled, bound by karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|172	It is not a matter of becoming the Self, but of realizing that you never were not the Self. And what is that Self? It is Parasiva. It is God. It is That which is beyond the mind, beyond thought, feeling and emotion, beyond time, form and space.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|173	That goal is to realize God Siva in His absolute, or transcendent, state, which when realized is your own ultimate state—timeless, formless, spaceless Truth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Siva|174	The Self, or Parasiva, is an experience only after it has been experienced. Yet, it is not an experience at all, but the only possible nonexperience, which registers in its aftermath upon the mind of man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|175	The Self, Parasiva, can be realized only when the devotee turns away from the world and enters the cave within as a way of life through initiation and under vows.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|176	Are we ready for the final journey life has to offer? Are we prepared to endure the hardships of sadhana, to suffer the death of the ego? Or would we prefer more pleasures in the world of "I" and "mine?"	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|177	The burdened have no sense of urgency, no expression of joy. They have stopped. They are standing on the path holding their troubles in their hands, unwilling and unable to let go.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|178	Worship of Lord Ganesha sets the path of dharma. Go to His Feet. He alone can perform this miracle for you. He will release the mental and emotional obstructions to spiritual progress. He will remove the burdens of worldliness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Gods|179	It is our past that colors and conditions, actually creates, the future. We purge the past in the present, and we fashion the future in the present.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|180	Seeing the mind in its totality convinces the seeker that he is something else, he is the witness who observes the mind and cannot, therefore, be the mind itself. Then we realize that the mind in its superconsciousness is pure.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|181	We must live in the now to follow the path to enlightenment. In the lower realms of the mind, where time and space seem very real, we are worried about the past or concerned about the future. These two intermingle and limit conscious awareness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|182	Living in the future overactivates the intellect, the emotion and the desires. The future is little more than another form of mental fantasy. Past and future are equally unreal and a hindrance to spiritual unfoldment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|183	Once a profound relationship is developed with Lord Muruga, then with the guru's permission and guidance, true yoga may commence. Otherwise, no matter how long one sits in meditation, no matter how hard one tries, it is just sitting, it is just trying.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Gods|184	The internal difference that makes a soul a jnani is that he knows who he is and who you are. He knows Truth, and he knows the lie.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|185	On this path, you don't have to be a great rishi or a highly trained yogi. You don't have to be a great philosopher. You don't have to know Sanskrit. Just love God, which is the Life of the life within everyone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Worship|186	It's very simple: the energy within our body is the same energy that pervades the universe, and it's all emanating right out of Lord Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|187	You don't discipline yourself to attain the feeling of love. You attain the feeling of love and then you want to discipline yourself because you love the discipline, because it brings more love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|188	The path of Saiva Siddhanta is worshiping God on the outside and realizing God on the inside, and when the two come together—transformation!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,The Self,Hinduism|189	Of course if you love Siva, obviously you have to love everyone else. Love brings forgiveness. Love brings understanding. Love brings feeling.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|190	Our individual existence, our individual life, should be identified with the immortal body, not with the physical body, not with the emotional body, not with the intellectual body, not with the astral body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|191	This inner light is so beautiful. All day long my head has been filled with light. It feels that if I were to reach up and put both hands around the top of my head, there wouldn't be a head there.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|192	The good-and-bad concept should be thrown out with a lot of other things, including the up-and-down concept. There is no good; there is no bad. You don't raise your consciousness, nor do you lower it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|193	Hold your center. Find the place within you that has never, ever changed, that's been the same for many lives, that feeling that has been the same within you since you were a little child up to this very time. Find that!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation,The Self|194	Be That which never changes. Then what happens? When we become this spiritual body and grasp that infinite intelligence of it, we're just in a state of pure consciousness and we come into the clear white light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,The Self|195	Life is a series of decisions also. One decision builds into another. To make a good decision, we have to again bring our total awareness to the eternity of the moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|196	The only good decisions come to us when we hold the consciousness of the eternity of the moment and go within ourself for the answer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|197	The first faculty of the expression of the inner being of your immortal soul is the great power of observation, to learn through observation, as your individual awareness detaches itself from that which it is aware of.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|198	When we make a decision, it has its reaction. If we do not make a decision, that has a reaction too, for then decisions are made for us by circumstance, other people, situations or confusion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|199	We're here to realize the Self, to have that one dramatic experience where everything that we thought was things is turned upside down, and our whole perspective afterwards changes. That is the purpose for living on this Earth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|200	Think today about the personal experiences in your lifetime and clearly view just how often you cling to the banks of life's river by attaching yourself to personalities and possessions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|201	It is the wise man who recognizes the importance of controlling the forces of his mind. His life is a struggle to make his philosophy real, to gain control of the cycles of experience which have tied him to the wheel of karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Karma,Facing Life|202	To be affectionately detached - that is a power. That is a wisdom. That is a love greater than any emotional love, a love born of understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|203	You need a tremendous, indomitable will to make a reality of your quest of realizing the Being within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,The Self|204	When we are not harboring negative attachments to anything that happened twenty or thirty years ago, thus creating tensions in our body and confusion in our mind, the subconscious becomes a powerhouse.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma,Meditation|205	In practicing affectionate detachment, we are learning to live in the here and now, right in the moment. We are awakening the power of direct cognition, the power that enables us to understand what happens, when it happens and why it happens.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|206	Be like the river water. Water flows freely anywhere, easily finding its way around rocks and trees. Be pliable in your life, moving in rhythm with life. Let go of everything that blocks the river of life's energy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|207	Be free from life's attachments and don't allow any more negative attachments to occur in your life. Loosen yourself—be free. Attachments bring all sorts of complications. Freedom brings no complications at all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|208	Sadhana is performing the same discipline over and over and over again. Just as we methodically exercise the physical body to build up its muscles, we perform spiritual disciplines over and over again to strengthen our spiritual, inner bodies.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|209	The mystic lives, and is taught to live, two-thirds within himself and only one-third in the external. In learning how to do this, the mystic is taught to become consciously conscious, or aware that he is aware.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|210	What's the biggest barrier? Fear. Afraid of our secret thoughts. Afraid of our secret feelings. What's the biggest escape from fear? Go to the center, where energy exists, the energy that moves the life through the body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|211	We have three eyes. We see with our physical eyes and then we think about what we have seen. Going into meditation, we see with our third eye our thoughts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|212	Turn awareness back in on itself and simply be aware that you are aware. Try to penetrate the core of existence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,The Self|213	Finally, you go beyond light. Finally, you go into the core of existence itself, the Self God, beyond the stillness of the inner areas of mind. That is the mission and that is what humanity is seeking—total Self-God Realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Meditation|214	Everything in the world and everything in the mind is as it should be—in a perfect state of evolution. Superconsciously, we can clearly see this through the eyes of our soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|215	The mind is vast in its combinations of time, space and form. It contains every vibration from subtle to gross.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|216	Observation, when perceptively performed, is cultivated by abstinence from excessive talk. Talk dissipates the energies of the aura and of the vital body of man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|217	Remember, your powers of observation are cultivated by abstinence from excessive talk. That is all you have to do to begin with—be more silent and observing, not wasting or dissipating this most vital power.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|218	I have seen myself, in a certain state of samadhi, as pure life force flowing through a jungle, through trees, through plants, through water, through air. That is superconsciousness. It is so permanent. It is so real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|219	Occasionally, in deep meditation we see the head filled with an intense light, and we know that that is the natural state of man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|220	Being on the brink of Self Realization, having lost consciousness of the physical body and of being a mind, you are only conscious of a vast, bluish white light. You get into this through going into the clear white light and out through the other side of it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,The Self|221	Will means that if you're going to complete something, you complete it. Finish that which you begin. Finish it well, beyond your expectations, no matter how long it takes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|222	Unfoldment doesn't take a lot of time. It just takes a lot of willpower.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|223	Here are the ingredients: attention, concentration, meditation, contemplation, samadhi. Willpower is the fuel.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|224	It is not advisable to habitually sit for meditation with no particular goal or direction, for we often end up walking in mental or subconscious circles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|225	Undisciplined people are generally people whom nobody can tell what to do. They won't listen. They can't tell themselves what to do, and nobody else is going to tell them either!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|226	If you sincerely want to make headway in meditation and continue to do so year after year after year, you have to approach it in a very positive, systematic way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|227	Someone who meditates well also thinks well. He can flow through that thinking area of the mind and work out things through the thought processes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|228	Don't get up after your meditation and immediately run off to do something. Sit in silent stillness until that power subsides in a gradual and refined way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|229	Yes, willpower is the key, the must, the most needed faculty for spiritual unfoldment on this path. Work hard, strive to accomplish, strengthen the will by using the will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation,Sadhana|230	Occasionally, in a cross-section of the inner mind, when light merges into transcendental form, the young aspirant may view the golden actinic face of a master peering into his, kindly and all-knowing. He is looking at his own great potential.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|231	Remember, when the seal is broken and clear white light has flooded the mind, there is no more a gap between the inner and the outer. Even uncomplimentary states of consciousness can be dissolved through meditation and seeking again the light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|232	The uninitiated might ask: "What is it like to be in the clear white light?" The young aspirant may reply, "It is as simple as sitting in a darkened room, closing the eyes in deep concentration and finding the entire inside of the cranium turning into light."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|233	Attachment, for instance, holds our cells together; it is also the root of much suffering, for attachment to material objects or people keeps man's awareness externalized, incapable of expressing itself in full freedom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|234	Fear is another shadow which causes man to have an inability to face a critical moment, even in the intimacy of his deepest meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|235	A beautiful practice is to try to sit quietly, visualizing within the lotus within the heart a light, a strong light emanating clearly, a light that is always there.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|236	When you are feeling unhappy and you feel unhappy because you are unhappy, and you feel rather ill all over, sit down and breathe deeply.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|237	When a person depends upon memory or reason for meaningful answers, the mind will break down in doubt. Only when the higher elucidation of the intuition is sought is doubt dispelled.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|238	Seeking for God in the depths of one's being through control of the mind, control of one's thoughts, feelings and emotions, gives birth to the highest qualities of nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|239	The spiritual path is a constant turning within, turning the light of the superconscious into the dark corners and recesses of the mind. "What is hidden shall be revealed," and so it is on this path as man reveals his Self to himself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|240	As you sit in meditation in a darkened room, practice directing your consciousness inward, to the center of your brain. If you are able to perceive light within your body, you are on the path to immortality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|241	The next time you are in a state of worldliness—jealous, angry or feeling sorry for yourself—sit down and seek for the light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|242	The inner light is so beautiful. It is firm, like a plasma. It is sometimes fibrous and full of energy. And yet, it is quiet and full of colors.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|243	Life tests and retests our emotional maturity. Whether we meet those tests or fail is entirely up to us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|244	We make very little progress when we strive to conquer these baser instincts in a good mood. However, vast strides are possible when we are miserable and work with ourselves to replace our misery with joy and understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|245	This week look at everyone you meet, and feel, from your finger tips right down to your toes, love welling up from your deepest resources and radiating out to them through every cell of your body and especially through your face.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|246	Understanding, loving and making allowances—these are the strengths of the soul awakened through sadhana, once the emotional ups and downs and the barriers of the instinctive influences of fear, jealousy, anger, deceit and disappointment are conquered.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Sadhana|247	If you are a mystic, you will have deeper and ever more fulfilling insights in your daily meditations. All of the mysteries of life will unfold before your inner vision once the instinctive mind is mastered in your life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|248	Visualize a powerful light flooding into your solar plexus as you breathe in, charging all the batteries of the nervous system, filling your body and mind with energy and positive will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|249	In a relaxed state, happiness is found, and the qualities of the soul shine forth. Selfish, greedy people are tense, concerned, often inhibited. Tension breeds negative thinking.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|250	Repeat the affirmation, "All my needs will always be met," and feel how it is to feel after all of your needs have been met.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|251	When you say to yourself, "I am all right, right now," you immediately bring the forces of the mind together. All fears, worries and doubts cease. An influx of spiritual energy fills the subconscious, and a sense of dynamic security permeates your being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|252	"Tomorrow I shall wake up filled with energy, creatively alive and in tune with the universe." Say this several times to yourself and feel the spiritual force begin to move, the life force begin to move, within your body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|253	"I will be what I will to be. I will do what I will to do." You can repeat these two powerful affirmations over time and time again and thus rearrange, restructure, the forces of your subconscious mind and create a great inner peace within yourself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|254	The greatest thing that a devotee must learn is that all knowing is within oneself. Therefore, go to the great superconscious school within you and bring forth knowledge.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|255	Spiritual destiny is manifested in the lives of those who stand out from the masses and actually do something, who live a creative life for the benefit of others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|258	Some reactions are healthy; others are unhealthy. The reaction to a reaction is destructive, whereas the reaction itself, when viewed with a balanced mind, eventually becomes an asset.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|259	When we begin to meditate, we have to transmute the energies of the physical body. By sitting up straight with the spine erect, the energies of the physical body are transmuted.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|260	The force of the intellectual area of the mind is controlled and transmuted through the power of a regulated breath. A beginning pranayama is a method of breathing nine counts as we inhale, holding one; nine counts as we exhale, holding one count.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|261	Choose a time for your meditation. Sit up so straight and strong and dynamic that you feel you are at that very moment the center of the universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|262	You have to realize It to know It; and after you realize It, you know It; and before you realize It, you want It; and after you realize It, you don't want It. You have lost something. You have lost your goal for Self Realization, because you've got it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|263	But you must remember that even the greatest souls have had nightmares, confusions, heartbreaks, disappointments, losses, desires that have been unfulfilled and experiences that they have not been able to cognize.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|264	There is an art which you can learn which will make all of your decisions easier. It is the art of being constant. Consistency wins. Consistency is one of the most important qualities of a devotee.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|265	To know yourself is why you are on Earth. You were born to realize the Self. You are not here to make money, to clothe yourself or to entertain yourself. These are incidentals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Facing Life|266	Your journey on this Earth has only one goal, Self Realization. You are here to attain the highest possible states of consciousness. You are not here to react to the petty incidents that occur in the valley of the subconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,The Self|267	Be equal to whatever you meet! That is a better way to react to life. It is accomplished simply by meeting everything in understanding, by demanding understanding from within yourself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|268	Watch for those small incidents that imperceptibly get under your skin and create an eruption a few days later.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|269	Find the permanency within you that has never changed through the ages, and you will realize that change is only in the ever-changing mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|270	Face each test graciously. Welcome each test and welcome each temptation that shows you the strength of your will over the chaotic senses.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|271	You have only to quiet all things of the mind to realize your identity with the eternity of God Siva, the Spirit, the eternal Self within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Meditation|272	Meditation is not an escape from the exterior world. We have to straighten ourselves out in the exterior world first before meditation and inner life can really be successful.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|273	This is my advice: gain the perspective first that it is a wonderful world, that there is nothing wrong in the world at all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|274	The best thing to do when you begin meditation is to live in a good environment, among good people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|275	You are perfect this very moment. You are all that you will ever be.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|276	Even a great soul faces difficulties, but he does not take them personally. Generally people take problems too personally by identifying closely with them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|277	Do you know that the ability to live right now, in the instant, is a spiritual power, reflecting the awakening of the soul and requiring a subconscious control of the mind?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|278	Imagine yourself now, worried, bothered and disturbed, and in the midst of your disturbance say to yourself, "I am all right, right now. Just this instant, I am all right."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|279	Become perfect in yoga. Your rewards will be great and your future sublime.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|280	We may say that love is the heart of the mind. Anything that comes before you in life can be conquered through universal love, a force which is a demonstration of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|281	Love may also be thought of as the full expression of the intuitive mind, a continuing flow from the source of Being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|282	The only real security comes from within. Gain security, and if your security comes from within you, you become unburdened.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|283	Giving is an essential for spiritual unfoldment, for until we give and give abundantly, we don't really realize that we are not the giver; we are just a channel for giving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|284	The person who has a heart full of joy, even if he doesn't have material possessions to speak of, always finds something to give; he gives what he has.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|285	The Hindu religion brings to us the gift of tolerance that allows for different stages of worship, different and personal expressions of devotion and even different Gods to guide our life on this Earth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|286	Darshan coming from the great temples of our Gods can change the patterns of karma dating back many past lives, clearing and clarifying conditions that were created hundreds of years ago and are but seeds now, waiting to manifest in the future.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Gods,Worship|287	Hinduism is the most dynamic religion on the planet, the most comprehensive and comprehending. The Hindu is completely filled with his religion all of the time. It is a religion of love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|288	As we come closer to the wonderful Gods of Hinduism, we come to love them in a natural way, to be guided by them and to depend on them more than we depend on ourselves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Worship,Hinduism|289	For me, true free will means the dharmic will that is divine and guided by the superconscious. In reality, only this kind of will makes you free.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|290	The Hindu considers all of mankind his brothers and sisters, all created by the same Creator, all destined to the same attainment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|291	Religion is the connection between the three worlds, and temple worship is how you can get your personal connection with the inner worlds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Worship|292	The Gods of Hinduism create, preserve and protect mankind. It is through their sanction that all things continue, and through their will that they cease. It is through their grace that all good things happen, and all things that happen are for the good.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Wisdom|293	The greatest inhibiting factor in practicing bhakti yoga is the doubting, cynical, intellectual mind. Doubt and skepticism harden the heart and narrow the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Worship|294	When you have the energy of bhakti, of love, flowing through your body, meditation is easy. You don't have to go through the preliminaries. You are already functioning in the higher chakras.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Worship|295	Go on a pilgrimage once a year, read scriptures daily, perform puja daily, go to the temple at least once a week, if not more often—fulfill these disciplines, known as the pancha nitya karmas. This is the basic Saiva Siddhanta sadhana.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|296	If you see something in someone else you do not like and it is affecting you emotionally, sit down and face it within your own subconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|297	One who performs japa properly will realize what he knows. You see, japa opens up the inner mind and focuses the energies of certain chakras, which are consciousness encased within the psychic nerve ganglia of the nadi network.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Sadhana|298	To live positively in the conscious mind each day, exercise at least a half hour. Keep the vital energies of the body high and healthy. Eat simply and follow a vegetarian diet, feeding the stomach rather than the mouth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|299	Intuition travels through a purified subconscious. Before we can utilize the superconscious or intuitive realms of the mind, we must be able to resolve those past experiences which may still vibrate in our subconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Meditation|300	Things that you cannot face in yourself you will hate when you see them in someone else.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|301	If you are having a difficult day, tell yourself, "I'm working with my subconscious mind. Admittedly, things are not working out very well for me today, but I think I will have it all adjusted by evening."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|302	When your subconscious has been cleared of past reactionary patterns and reprogrammed thoroughly, you do not take exception to things that happen in the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|303	There is no place where Siva is not. He is in you. He is in this temple. He is in the trees. He is in the sky, in the clouds, in the planets. He is the galaxies swirling in space and the space between galaxies, too. He is the universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|304	Always worship this great God. Never fear Him. He is the Self of your self. He is closer than your own breath. His nature is love, and if you worship Him with devotion you will know love and be loving toward others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,The Self|305	It takes a lot of inner strength to remember Siva all of the time, to keep the love for Siva flowing. We forget. We get involved in ourselves and others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship,Siva|306	Repeat "Aum Namah Sivaya." When life becomes difficult or strained, say to yourself "Siva Siva" or "Aum Sivaya" or "Namah Sivaya." Mentally put it all at His feet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Siva|307	In the subtle worlds, Siva has the most beautiful form, not unlike a human form, but an absolutely perfect human form. He thinks. He talks. He walks. He makes decisions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|309	Those of you who are wrestling with the mind in your many endeavors to try to concentrate the mind, to try to meditate, to try to become quiet, to try to relax, keep trying. Every positive effort that you make is not in vain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Facing Life|310	The stronger you are in your nature, the more you can bring through your real nature; the more you can enjoy the bliss of your true being. It is well worth working for. It is well worth craving for.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|311	Ahimsa is the first and foremost virtue, presiding over truthfulness, nonstealing, sexual purity, patience, steadfastness, compassion, honesty and moderate appetite.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|312	When we restrain our tendencies to deceive, to lie and break promises, our external life is uncomplicated, as is our subconscious mind. Honesty is the foundation of truth. It is ecologically, psychologically purifying.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|313	Of course, stealing must never, ever happen. Even a penny, a peso, a rupee, a lira or a yen should not be misappropriated or stolen. Defaulting on debts is also a form of stealing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|314	Many people today are addicted to abusing credit. It's like being addicted to the drug opium. People addicted to O.P.M.—other people's money—compulsively spend beyond their means.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Humor|315	Faithfulness in marriage means fidelity and much more. It includes mental faithfulness, non-flirtatiousness and modesty toward the opposite sex. A married man, for instance, should not hire a secretary who is more magnetic or more beautiful than his wife.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|316	Patience is having the power of acceptance, accepting people, accepting events as they are happening. One of the great spiritual powers that people can have is to accept things as they are.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|317	Observe those who are steadfast. You will learn from them. Observe those who are not, and they, too, will teach you. They will teach what you should not do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|318	Compassion is the outgrowth of love. Love is the outgrowth of understanding. Understanding is the outgrowth of reason.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|319	The most important rule of honesty is to be be honest to oneself, to be able to face up to our problems and admit that we have been the creator of them. To be honest with oneself brings peace of mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|320	Bribery corrupts the giver, the taker and the nation. To participate in bribery is to go into a deceptive, illegal partnership between the briber and the bribed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|321	According to ayurveda, not eating too much is the greatest thing you can do for health if you want a long life, ease in meditation and a balanced, happy mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|322	A clean personal environment, wearing clean clothes, bathing often, keeping the room spotless where you meditate, breathing clean air, letting fresh air pass through your house, is all very important in the fulfillment of purity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|323	There is another way to show remorse for misdeeds. That is by performing seva, religious service, for persons you have wronged. Give them gifts, cook them food.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|324	Having hurt another through wrongdoing, one has to pay back in proportion to the injury, not a rupee less and not a rupee more. The moment the healing is complete, the scar will mysteriously vanish. This is the law. It is a mystical law.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|325	There is a way of being remorseful, showing shame, being humble, of resolving situations when they do go wrong so that you can truly "get on with life" and not be bound by emotionally saturated memories of the past.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|326	There is in much of the world the belief that life is a burden, a feeling of penitence, that it is good to suffer, good for the soul. In fact, spiritual life is not that way at all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|327	Maintaining joy and serenity in life means being content with your surroundings, be they meager or lavish. Be content with your money, be it a small amount or a large amount.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|328	Contentment is there, inside you, and needs to be brought out. It is a spiritual power. Santosha is being peaceful in any situation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|329	Giving a gift begrudgingly in return for another gift is, of course, mere barter. Many families barter their way through life in this way, thinking they are giving. But such gifts are cold, the fulfillment is empty, and the law of karma pays discounted returns.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|330	When guests come, they must be given hospitality, at least a mat to sit on and a glass of water to drink. These are obligatory gifts. You must never leave your guest standing, and you must never leave your guest thirsty.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|331	Anyone can strengthen another's faith through encouragement, personal example, good natured humoring, praise, flattery, adulation, or take it away by the opposite methods.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Family Life|332	The intellect in its capacity to contain truth is a very limited tool, while faith is a very broad, accommodating and embracing faculty. The mystery of life and beyond life, of Siva, is really better understood through faith than through intellectual reasoning.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|333	All Hindus have guardian devas who live on the astral plane and guide, guard and protect their lives. The great Mahadevas in the temple that the devotees frequent send their deva ambassadors into the homes to live with the devotees.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Hinduism|334	Scriptures within Hinduism are voluminous. The methods of teaching are awesome in their multiplicity. As for teachers, there is one on every corner in India.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|335	Mati, cognition, on a higher level is the awakening of the third eye, looking out through the heart chakra, seeing through the maya, the interacting creation, preservation and dissolution of the molecules of matter.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|336	Taking a vow is a sacred trust between yourself, your outer self, your inner self, your loved ones and closest friends.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Facing Life|337	There is no way a mantra can be learned from a book and be effective. Therefore, approach the guru cautiously and with a full heart.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|338	Austerity is the fire that straightens the twisted life and mind of an individual, bringing him into pure being, giving a new start in life, awakening higher consciousness and a cosmic relationship with God and the Gods, friends, relatives and casual acquaintances.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Facing Life|339	Remember, your own soul knows the reasons why you were born in this life. It knows what you need to accomplish in this birth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|340	Add to your contemplative lifestyle a hobby or craft. Working creatively with your hands, taking physical substance and turning it into something different, new and beautiful is important in remolding the subconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|341	It is wise to have a free mind, a clear, serene and relaxed attitude toward life before partaking of food. That is why people on the inner path traditionally meditate for a moment, chant a mantra or say a prayer before a meal.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|342	Good interpersonal relationships help the meditator a great deal, and meditation helps keep those relations harmonious. When we get along nicely with others, meditation becomes easy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|343	You must purify yourself. You purify yourself by being kind to others, being generous until it hurts, being benevolent, being ready to serve at all times until you are strained in serving. Put a smile on the faces of other people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|344	If you do not understand your reaction to something, wait until it subsides emotionally, so you will not be upset, then try to understand it by writing about it in a quiet moment. Then burn the paper in an inauspicious fire, such as in a garbage can.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|345	Control your circumstances and your life. Guard your weak points with understanding, and don't allow yourself to be put into a position where you will react.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|346	Let us look within and see if we are reacting to anything right now, holding any resentment, holding any fear. Let us know that that is just a gauge of experience of the instinctive nature. Loosen it and let it go.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|347	A mother's place is within the home and not out in the world working. When she is in the home all day, she brings love and security to the children, sensitivity and stability to the husband.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Family Life|348	In the home, the mother is likened to the Shakti Deity. She is the power, the very soul of the home. None other. So, she has to be there. She has to be treated sensitively and kindly, and with respect.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Family Life|349	Holding the family together can be summed up in one word: love. Love is understanding. Love is acceptance. Love is making somebody feel good about his experience, whether the experience is a good one or not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Family Life|350	You can't go into anything with freedom when you need it. You must be desireless and observe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|351	It is the older folk, the wiser folk, the experienced elders, who have lived longer and therefore can see further, to whom youth should be listening.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom,Family Life|352	The mind never gets old, though the brain may. The mind never deteriorates. Consciousness was never born and never dies.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|353	Age is not an obstacle; it is a legacy. The most senior among us should have faith in the future, not be led to think that turning fifty or sixty or eighty is some morbid milestone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|354	Those who know wisdom's ways have overcome the "I'm getting old" syndrome, a mantra no one should ever repeat, even once.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|355	The older you get, the more disciplined you should get, the more sadhana you should perform as you drop off the extraneous things of the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|356	When we are selfish, self-centered and flare up and lose control of ourselves, we are like animals. When we reflect understanding, have control of ourselves and use our will to conquer our lower nature, we are using the Godly part of our mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|357	Become a spiritual being. That is your goal, your liberation, for as the years go by you can live in heaven, or you can live in your own self-created hell, and you don't want to do that. Think about it and create a heaven right now by living with Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Facing Life|358	People wonder about their past lives, but it doesn't really matter who you were in your past lives. It is the cumulative creation of what you've done in the past which has manifested in what you are in this life that should concern you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Facing Life|359	A better word than death is transition, passing into a new form of life—life into life. It is similar to moving to a new country, having completed all of one's tasks. Death is a closing of the door on deeds well done, on all beneficial karmas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|360	We have one duty to perform, which is to pass our religion on to the next generation, the next and the next. And how do we do this? How is this done? It is done by causing the children to memorize the precepts of our scriptures.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism,Sadhana,Family Life|361	My satguru, Siva Yogaswami, said, "It is a sin to kill the tiger in the jungle. But if he comes into the village, it may become your duty."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|362	Gratitude and appreciation are the key virtues for a better life. They are the spell that is cast to dissolve hatred, hurt and sadness, the medicine which heals subjective states of mind, restoring self-respect, confidence and security.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|363	Loving appreciation is a life-changing force just waiting to be used. Express appreciation to community leaders, business associates, spiritual mentors, family members and friends as often as you can.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|364	When your spiritual will is awake, you have consideration for other people's feelings. When your spiritual will is awake, you give in on little things, and you have the power to hold firm on big issues.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|365	When you are in for the realization of the Self, you have to stop the cycles of hurt feelings and regrets.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,The Self,Meditation|366	Harmony is the first and foremost rule of living in all spheres, but particularly in spiritual work, where it is an absolute must.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life,Wisdom|367	The study of yoga is reserved for the few who have the courage to seek the depths of their being, for the few who can overcome their experiences and their desires in deep meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|368	If difficult things are happening to you and your mind is disturbed because of them and you have mental arguments within you because you can't accept your own karma, go to the feet of Lord Siva in your mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Siva|369	Humility is intelligence; arrogance is ignorance. To accept one's karma and the responsibility for one's actions is strength. To blame another is weakness and foolishness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Facing Life|370	If you take responsibility for all that happens to you, then you will have the power to deal with your karma through the grace of Lord Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Facing Life|371	What do we mean when we say there is no good and no bad, only experience? We mean that in the highest sense, there is no good and bad karma; there is self-created experience that presents opportunities for spiritual advancement.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Meditation|372	What's the best way to teach peace to the world? The best way is to first teach families to be peaceful within their own home, to settle all arguments and contention before they sleep at night.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Family Life|373	My satguru, Siva Yogaswami, used to say, "It takes a lot of courage to be happy all the time."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|374	The great, Supreme God of all the Gods is limited in one respect: He cannot take Himself out of you or anyone else.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|375	Love says, "I'm sorry." Love says, "Thank you." Love is also generosity, because whomever you love you are generous toward. You have generosity; you give and you give and you give and you give.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|376	God Siva is in all things and everywhere simultaneously, at every point in time.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|380	If you must lean on something or someone, lean on your own spine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|382	I'm all right, right now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|383	Meditate, discover the silent center of your self, and then go deep within to the very core of your Real Being. Slowly, the purity comes. Slowly the awakening comes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|384	If you take responsibility for all that happens to you, then you will have the power to deal with your karma through the grace of Lord Siva. He will give you the intelligence to deal with it as you worship Him in the Siva temple, contact Him as the Life of your life and find Him in meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma|385	The letters A-U-M harmonize the physical body with the mind and the mind with the intuitive nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|386	Walking can quiet the subconscious of the conscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|387	Spiritual unfoldment is not a process of awakening the higher chakras but the closing of the ones below the muladhara.Once this happens, consciousness slowly expands into the higher chakras which are always there. The only thing that keeps the lower chakras closed is regular sadhana, japa, worship and working with oneself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana|388	When the mind has resolved all of its differences through worship, penance, dhyana and dharana then the inner which is stillness itself is known. Then the inner is stronger than the outer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|389	Upon the connection between Guru and shishya, the spirit of parampara travels, the spirit of sampradaya travels. It causes the words that are said to sink deep. They don't just bounce off the intellect, the message goes into the individual. Spiritual force doesn't just happen.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|390	It is the duty of shishya to be responsive to the Satguru and not resistive.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|392	Siva is the Life of your life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|393	Sacred is secret in all religions because if you talk about your inner experiences, you make them outer experiences and you stop the process.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|394	The energy within our body is the same energy that pervades the universe, and it's all emanating right out of Lord Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|395	That light is illuminating every thought; take away the thoughts and you realize that you are just light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|397	The peacock is a significant and wonderful bird. It's a symbol of Lord Muruga. Why he chose that way to come, I don't know; never said.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Humor|398	Only you can do it. Nobody can do it for nor can anyone give it to you. Why can't they give you the Self? Because it's already there. You already have it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|399	Everyone's our teacher; some people teach us what to do and other people teach us, by example, what not to do. But to gain discrimination between the two, that's the art.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|400	Get results! Don't look for the other person to get results for you. That's a Western method, going to somebody else to do something for you. By self effort, use of willpower, and of course if there is love in the heart chakra, in the will, it makes it that much more sweet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|401	It's all Siva's magical work.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|402	Man is in a perfect state of being right now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|403	Have the courage to admit when you are right or the courage to admit when you are wrong. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|404	When you become acquainted with your spirit and employ your spirit consciously, you can overcome, or override, pass over or pass through any adverse conditions that might arise in your life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|405	We are the ones that spin the wheel of our own karma, our own experiences.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|406	The more souls that you can awaken into the consciousness of their real Self, the closer you come to your real Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|407	The mind has condensed itself so much that we think we are what we see in the mirror.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|408	Your entire mind has no reality in the face of Reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Wisdom|409	Each Guru has to uproot you. That's part of being a Guru. Like taking out a wisdom tooth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru,Humor|410	As you know the temple is where everything takes place. Temple is where you get on with it. You come here, you sit down, if you have a problem, you work it out within yourself. A lot of work can be done in the temple, because of the vibration of the temple, that cannot be done elsewhere.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Worship|411	Hinduism is a general and free-flowing, relaxed religion, experienced in the temple, in the ashramas, the aadheenams, at festivals, on pilgrimage and in the home.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|412	The whole mind is finished, all complete, in all stages of manifestation. Man's individual awareness flows through the mind as the traveler trods the globe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|413	Externalization of awareness results in one layer upon another layer of misunderstanding void of an inner point of reference. We have to reprogram the subconscious to change it, and not worry over the old impressions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|414	As soon as strong initiative is taken to change our nature toward refinement, a new inner process begins to take place. The forces of positive accomplishment from each of our past lives begin to manifest in this one.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|415	Meditation is a long journey, a pilgrimage into the mind itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|416	The object in being on the spiritual path is not to have just a little influx of energy, but to be the energy itself—consciously.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|417	People always tend to identify, instinctively, freedom with abandon. But the type of abandon that seeks personal gratification always gets you tied up in a knot. Abandon instead your personal fears and desires...and you, the real you, will become freed, released from the bonds of your own mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|418	The mind in its apparently endless confusion and desires leads us by novelty from one thing to the next. The reaction to this causes the miseries of the world, and miseries of the world happen inside of people. But occasionally we have to call a halt to the whole thing and get into ourselves. That's the process of meditation. It's an art.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|420	Life is a series of decisions. Each instant, as we create the instant, we are creating the decision.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|421	Instant spiritual unfoldment is a fairy tale concept.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Facing Life|422	Each experience is a classroom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|423	Then there is the joy of the mysticism of Hinduism. It is the world's most magical religion, offering worlds within worlds of esoteric discovery and perception.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|424	No other religion on the Earth can ever begin to equal Hinduism's mystical teachings; all that wealth is the rightful inheritance of each Hindu.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|425	Art is not merely for egotistical and existential self-expression, but for spiritual expression, done consciously in service to the Divine. That is why one seldom sees or even knows the name of the artist of the great Hindu artistic creations. The artist is not creating in order to become famous or rich. He is surrendering his talents, serving his Gods and his religion through his art, and his art takes on a certain sacredness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|426	Hinduism has no founder. It was never founded. It has neither a beginning nor an end. It is coexistent with man himself. That is why it is called the Sanatana Dharma, the Eternal Path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|427	To all Hindus, who today are found in every country on the Earth, I say: Courage! Courage! Courage! Have the courage to know beyond a doubt that Hinduism is the greatest religion in the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|428	There will be days when you just don't feel like meditating. Good. Those are often the best days, the times when we make strong inner strides.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Meditation|429	Through regulation of the breath, thoughts are stilled and awareness moves into an area of the mind which does not think, but conceives and intuits.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|430	Consistency wins.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Sadhana,Meditation|431	When we are children, we run freely, because we have no great subconscious burdens to carry.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|432	Experience gives us a bit of wisdom when we really face ourselves and discover the meaning of failure and success. Failure is just education.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|433	The ancient yoga systems provided a few simple yamas and niyamas for religious observance, defining how all people should live.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|434	If you just sit and breathe, the inner nerve system of the body of your psyche, your soul, begins to work on the subconscious, to mold it like clay. Awareness is loosened from limited concepts and made free to move vibrantly and buoyantly into the inner depths where peace and bliss remain undisturbed for centuries.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|435	In the morning, many of my students remember inner-plane class activities which occurred during the night, not as a dream but as their own experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|436	You can meditate while you sleep, but don't sleep while you are meditating!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Humor|437	It is our teaching not to react to life's experiences, but to understand them and in the understanding to free ourselves from the impact of these experiences, realizing the Self within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|438	The true Self is only realized when you gain a subconscious control over your mind by ceasing to react to your experiences so that you can concentrate your mind fully, experience first meditation and contemplation, then samadhi, or Self Realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,The Self|439	When you have will power, you can produce powerful results in your life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|440	Will power is really your soul in action.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|441	Finish what you have begun to do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Facing Life|442	When you realize something, you say, 'yes, now I know that I know'. You will never forget your realization. It permeates you from your head into every atom of your being right down to your toes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|443	Send out your blessings to the world. Bless those that disturb you. Bless those that love you. Send out your blessings equally to all as the sun shines on all and all alike.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|444	Feel the spirit within you, the Self God within you, permeating every atom of your being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,The Self|445	Begin to see a great Light shining within you, the Light of the Self, filling the whole world, and the world dissolves itself into that light as a tiny lump of sugar would dissolve itself into a glass of water, so does the mind dissolve itself into the Self God when God is realized.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Meditation|446	Be with me through the week in the within of you and realization upon realization will permeate and thrill your whole being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|447	The Siva temple is the abode of God Siva and Gods and the precinct in which the three worlds consciously commune. It is specially sanctified, possessing a ray of spiritual energy connecting it to the celestial worlds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods|448	After you have practiced meditation for some time, your inner vision will become keen and clear.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|449	Keep your meditation abilities and activities to yourself. Don't talk about inner things with anyone but your guru.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|450	If we are still reacting to our experiences, we are only starting on the yoga path to enlightenment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|451	In yoga we teach you must learn to die consciously.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|452	If you were practicing concentration and meditation intensely for a short period of time, great changes would take place in your life. That would be the proof.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|460	Even harsh karma, when faced in wisdom, can be the greatest catalyst for spiritual unfoldment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma|461	Performing daily sādhana, keeping good company, pilgrimaging to holy places, seeing to others' needs——these evoke the higher energies, direct the mind to useful thoughts and avoid the creation of troublesome new karmas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Sadhana|463	Violence is a reflection of lower, instinctive consciousness——fear, anger, greed, jealousy and hate——based in the mentality of separateness and unconnectedness, of good and bad, winners and losers, mine and yours.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|464	As long as our beliefs are dualistic, we will continue to generate antagonism, and that will erupt here and there in violence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|465	You change your own circumstances all the time, whether you know it or not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|466	Lean the thoughts and feelings of your creation in the right direction, and discover how quickly your circumstances will change their direction.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|467	Learn to assimilate. When you are engaged in conversation, do as the wise men of India do—pause after a while and let your thoughts assimilate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Wisdom|468	Have a view of the direction in which your mind is going, and you will have a good control over the direction of your life's circumstance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|469	Rely on the Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,The Self|471	Only after you have attained samadhi can you answer the question "Who am I?" from your own experience. Only then will you know that you are all-pervasive, and finally, in the deepest samadhi, that you are causeless, timeless, spaceless and that you have been able to realize this through a balance of your awakened inner and outer consciousness, a bringing together of the forces of your mind in yoga, or union.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Meditation|472	My satguru, Yogaswami, made the very bold statement once, "There is not even one thing in this world that is not perfect!"	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|473	The grand old man of the East, Yogaswami, said, "It was all finished long ago."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|474	Awareness, Attention!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|475	Awareness, energy and will power are all the same thing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|476	Attention is awareness poised like a hummingbird over a flower.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|478	In contemplation you might not be conscious of light itself, for you're only conscious of light if you have a slight consciousness of darkness. Otherwise it's just your natural state.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|479	Yogaswami once said, "I went so deep within, that a bird was sitting on my head."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|480	The Self is so simple. You have to be so simple to realize the Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|481	We become so centered, we are right on the brink of the Absolute, which is man's heritage to realize, the maturity of his being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|482	We have to adjust ourself to the idea that we are a superconscious being predominantly.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|483	Become consciously superconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|484	When your timing is right, when everything is happening just right during the day, you are superconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|485	When you're disturbed about yesterday, or even have a consciousness there is a yesterday, you're not in a superconscious state.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|486	The devotee's path is to merge—in the totality of his awareness, willpower and life force—into the Self, God, Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|487	It is only when the devotee, through yoga disciplines under the direction of his satguru, traverses the thought strata of his mind that he begins to experience what he has been learning philosophically.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Meditation,Guru|488	The best thing to do when you begin meditation is to live in a good environment, among good people. Meditate alone and don't talk about it to anyone except the person who is helping you on the path. Do it inconspicuously, privately.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|489	We all know that guilty feelings become part of a person's nature. They become so close to a person, that to rid the person of a guilty feeling, it would be like taking out a vital organ.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|490	Have you noticed that as soon as you pay bills, you go out and get more bills. It is the worry that you want.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|491	If we were to take you apart and look at your mind, we would find that every thought permeating through your brain, leaves a groove. In Sanskrit that is called a samskara. Through this groove, like a river, flows energy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|492	If you get something in your mind and keep going over it and over it again, you are making a deeper and deeper groove. If you are worried about your debts, you are inflamed, emanating vital force.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|493	The instinctive-intellectual mind is made up of habits. It is difficult to break a habit, just as it would be difficult to move a river.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|494	You can withdraw the energy from this direction and put it in this direction. That is called the control of prana.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|495	In spiritual unfoldment, thinking is not enough.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru,Meditation,Worship,Sadhana|496	Examine the word I and honestly see what it means to you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|497	We have to examine this concept of who we are.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|498	A conscious awareness of now only comes when we remember who we really are. This doesn't mean we cannot plan for the future or benefit ourselves by reviewing experiences of the past. It simply means that we always remember that we are the essence of all energy, the source.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|499	It's easy to live in the now if you work with yourself a little every day and concentrate on what you are doing each moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|500	Merge with Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|501	Your journey on this earth has only one goal, Self Realization. You are here to attain the highest possible states of consciousness. You are not here to react to the petty incidents that occur in the valley of the subconscious. You are here to learn to control the mind and live on the mountaintop.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 103	Facing Life,The Self|502	Be equal to whatever you meet! That is a better way to react to life. It is accomplished simply by meeting everything in understanding, by demanding understanding from within yourself. And if you feel that everything happening to you is a play of universal love and you are able to maintain that consciousness of universal love in yourself, then you are beyond the happenings of the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 104	Facing Life|503	Love is the the sum of all spiritual laws. Anything that comes before you in life can be conquered through universal love, a force which is a demonstration of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 120	Facing Life|505	There is but one mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 169	Meditation|507	Flow with the river of life and merge in Siva's ocean of oneness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 28	Meditation,Siva|508	With the help of devotion, you can soar within. You can not only pull away detachedly from unwholesome areas of the mind, but it is possible to keep yourself in an inward state of expanded consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		The lotus of the heart ( chapter - the yoga called Bhakti)	Meditation|509	Awareness itself then turns in on itself enough to experience, to become the Self God—That which everyone is seeking. That is the sum total of the path. That is the path you are on. That is the experience that if you keep striving you will have in this life, even if it is at the point of death.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 35	The Self|510	Look to the Satgurus, who have themselves met and overcome the challenges that still lie ahead of you. Look to them and ask them to help you to look within yourself. Much of the mysticism which is the greatest wealth of Hinduism is locked within these masters, who in our tradition are known as the satgurus, the sages and the siddhas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging with Siva, lesson 316	Guru|515	Because Self Realization must be experienced in a physical body, the soul cycles back again and again into flesh to dance with Śiva, live with Śiva and ultimate­ly merge with Śiva in un­dif­ferenti­at­ed oneness. Yea, jīva is actually Śiva. The Vedas explain, "As water poured into water, milk poured into milk, ghee into ghee be­come one without differentiation, even so the individual soul and the Supreme Self become one." Aum Namaḥ Śivāya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|519	The ultimate goal of life on Earth is to realize the Self God, the rare attainment of nirvikalpa samadhi. Each soul discovers its Sivaness, Absolute Reality, Parasiva——the timeless, formless, spaceless Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self|520	We are divine souls on a wondrous journey. We came from God, live in God and are evolving into oneness with God. We are, in truth, the Truth we seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|522	Everything is within you: the sun, the moon, the planets, all of the people functioning through all their different states of consciousness, all of the various manifestations of form. They are all within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Lesson 326:	Meditation|524	As you leave external form and dive into that light which you become, you realize beyond realization a knowing deeper than thinking, a knowing deeper than understanding, a knowing which is the very, very depth of your being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Lesson 329:	Meditation|525	One can't command compassion. Before compassion comes love. Compassion is the outgrowth of love. Love is the outgrowth of understanding. Understanding is the outgrowth of reason.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Living With Siva, Lesson 22:	Facing Life|526	We find the paradoxes of oneness and twoness, of being and becoming, of created and uncreated existence subtly delineated through an understanding of the three perfections of our great God Siva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Lesson 325:	Siva|527	It is the point in time and space where our awareness resides that keys us in to seeing only one frame at a time on this circle of creation, preservation and dissolution.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Lesson 205:	Meditation|528	Love is an inner happiness which you want to cultivate in someone else, and if you begin to work at cultivating an inner happiness in someone else, you will have it yourself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Living With Siva, Lesson 301:	Facing Life|529	Out of all the philosophies, out of all the psychological maneuverings and the psychiatric analyses, the hope of the world is love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Living With Siva, Lesson 301:	Facing Life|530	The power of our decisions creates our reactions of tomorrow. When tomorrow's reactions happen, they program the subconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Lesson 178:	Facing Life|531	Reaction is what makes the world go round. It is the driving force which makes it possible for us to continue living and creating in our subconscious search for the inner being, our craving to bring forth our latent forces to the conscious plane.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Cognizantability, Canto 3, 16th aphorism:	Facing Life|532	Though you may not formally renounce the world, you can benefit your search immensely by knowing how the great ones live and respond to life. You can find ways in the midst of your life to follow their example.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Merging With Siva, Resource 2, Introduction to the Song of the Sannyasin:	Facing Life|533	To be affectionately detached—that is a power. That is a wisdom. That is a love greater than any emotional love, a love born of understanding, a love that merges you into the river of life and allows actinic force to flow within you so that you realize God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MERGING WITH SIVA, page 36:	Facing Life|535	If others harm you in thought, word or deed, do not resent it. Rather, let it awaken compassion, kindness and forgiveness. Use it as a mirror to view your own frailties; then work diligently to bring your own thoughts, words and deeds into line with Hindu Dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LIVING WITH SIVA, page 529:	Facing Life|536	This joy we seek is the joy of fullness, lacking nothing. Life is meant to be lived joyously.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LIVING WITH SIVA, page 71:	Facing Life|537	Even tolerance is insufficient to describe the compassion and reverence the Hindu holds for the intrinsic sacredness within all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LIVING WITH SIVA, page 23:	Hinduism|538	And if you feel that everything happening to you is a play of universal love and you are able to maintain that consciousness of universal love in yourself, then you are beyond the happenings of the world. Lifted in consciousness, you can see through and enjoy all the states of consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MERGING WITH SIVA, page 161:	Facing Life|539	If you can see ahead that you will not react, proceed. Dictate to yourself, face yourself, face your mistakes and don't make them again. Breaking spiritual laws creates reactions in the subconscious, and man loses spiritual power.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LIVING WITH SIVA, page 218	Facing Life|541	The enlightened person living on the planet suffers the great acceptance of things as they are. No longer, through his ignorance, does he feel a need to be manipulative. Sufferance means acceptance, tolerance and a complete joyousness at seeing the Perfect ever interrelating in trillions of perfect ways.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|542	Be precise and everything is nice.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MERGING WITH SIVA, page 717:	Facing Life|543	Everything has its place and is in it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|544	Humility places everything in proportion and balance within the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Reflections	Facing Life|546	Everything that is happening is good.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|547	Everything was meant to be.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Innerversity - MWS	Facing Life|548	If you look like your passport photo, you are probably too sick to travel.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|549	Understanding is fifty percent of control of the mind. Willpower is the other.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		fifty percent MC	Facing Life|550	Know thy Self by thy self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,The Self|551	Lean on your own spine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|552	Give a job to the busiest person and he or she will get it done.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|553	There is always a percentage of people who are unhappy. How do you make everyone happy? Not on this planet!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|555	Rishis proclaim that we are not our body, mind or emotions. We are divine souls on a wondrous journey. We come from God, live in God, and are evolving into oneness with God. We are, in Truth, the Truth we seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS, p.5	Facing Life|556	Each soul discovers its Sivaness, Absolute Reality, Parasiva——the timeless, formless, spaceless Self God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS, p.9	Siva,The Self|557	To the Saivite Hindu, all of life is sacred. All of life is religion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS, p.39	Hinduism|558	God Siva is all and in all, one without a second, the Supreme Being and only Absolute Reality. He is Pati, our Lord, immanent and transcendent.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS, p.49	Siva|559	The essence of our soul, which was never created, is immanent love and transcendent reality and is identical and eternally one with God Siva. At the core of our being, we already are That——perfect this very moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS, p83	Siva|560	In the highest sense, there is no good or bad karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS, p.95	Facing Life|561	Those who live with Siva have a zero tolerance for disharmonious conditions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS, p.700	Facing Life|563	Consistency is the key to the conquest of karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Facing Life|564	Remember, your own soul knows the reasons why you were born in this life. It knows what you need to accomplish in this birth. As a soul, you know what obstacles and challenges you need to face and overcome to grow stronger and conquer past karmic patterns through fulfilling your chosen dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 88, Living with Siva	Karma,Facing Life|568	Who am I? Where did I come from?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Sloka One, Dancing with Siva	Meditation|570	All knowing is within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 77, Merging with Siva	Meditation|571	Be confident within yourself. In order to be confident within yourself, have no fear. In order to have no fear, say to yourself, I am all right, right now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|573	Take courage, courage, courage into your own hands and proceed with confidence. Stand strong for Hinduism.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|574	You can make a difference.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 365, Living with Siva	Facing Life|575	Today is going to be a wonderful day. You are going to be positive. You are going to be strong. You are going to face the forces of the world as a divine soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/index.lc/view/gr_1998-08-26_describes-our-perfect-sou	Facing Life|576	Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|578	Be that now for which you have been striving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|580	The darshan of a guru is the power that stabilizes the devotee on the path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 306, Merging with Siva.	Guru|581	The concept of darshan goes beyond the devotee's seeing of the guru. It also embraces the guru's seeing of the devotee.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 303, Merging with Siva.	Guru|582	Consciousness and awareness are the same when awareness is totally identified with and attached to that which it is aware of. To separate the two is the artful practice of yoga.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 34, Merging with Siva.	Meditation|583	Awareness is man's individual spiritual being, the pure intelligence of his spiritual body, flowing through this vast universe of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 35, Merging with Siva.	Meditation|584	Energy, awareness, and willpower are one and the same.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Lesson 44, Merging with Siva.	Meditation|585	Worship of Ganesha sets the pattern of one's destiny.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Bhashya of Shloka 22, Dancing with Siva.	Worship,Gods|588	The ultimate goal of life on earth is to realize the Self, the rare attainment of nirvikalpa samadhi.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Shloka 5, Dancing with Siva.	The Self|589	We are all dancing with Siva, and He with us. Ultimately, we are Siva dancing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Shloka 3, Dancing with Siva.	Siva|590	Observation is the first faculty of the awakening of the superconscious regions. This observation is cultivated by abstinence from excessive talk.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		13th Aphorism from Cognizantability, Merging With Siva.	Facing Life,Meditation|602	We are, in truth, the Truth we seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS Sloka #1	The Self|603	We believe that there is no exclusive path, no one way for all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS Bhashya #12	Hinduism|604	Apparently those who have worked for the demise of Hinduism have done their work quite well. Still, I am not worried. I know the nature of waves, and this one will ebb as soon as it reaches the height of its power, replaced by the great power of returning to tradition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS lesson 138	Hinduism|605	The idea of a shortcut that transcends religion and brings one quickly to the peak is a fallacy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS lesson 303	Facing Life,Hinduism,Sadhana|606	Be patient. It comes in the course of time to all. It comes. It will come. Be patient.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS lesson #3	Meditation,Facing Life,The Self|607	Life is meant to be lived joyously.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS Sloka # 50	Facing Life|608	He is what He has created. Think about that. It is very deep.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva|609	You will later find that that light permeates every atom of the universe. You will later find that you are that light and what it permeates is the unreal illusion created by the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|610	Keep trying. Each time you try you are one step closer to your true Effulgent Being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS Lesson#7	Sadhana,Facing Life,Meditation|611	May fullness prevail, truth prevail, and the spirit of satya and ahimsa permeate humanity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS lesson #14	Facing Life|612	Be extra-special nice.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS Lesson #22	Facing Life|613	As a staff is used to climb a mountain, so must virtue be used in life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS Sloka #61	Facing Life|614	Don't allow the thinking to fight the knowing. Don't allow the thinking to rule your willpower. Then you will be spiritual.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS lesson# 294	Facing Life|615	There should be a unique English word for spiritual love, but there is not. In Sanskrit we do have a word for divine love: prema. Therefore, we have to adjust our thinking when we say, I love you, to this all-encompassing, beautiful love that radiates throughout the universe——the perfect universe where everything is in harmony and order.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 300	Facing Life|616	Love is an inner happiness which you want to cultivate in someone else, and if you begin to work at cultivating an inner happiness in someone else, you will have it yourself. If you work to cultivate an inner happiness in yourself, it doesn't work so well.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 301	Facing Life|617	Everyone has human emotions, instinctive emotions. Love controls those emotions. Love is appreciation, which can be expressed through gratitude, kind words, and especially through kind thoughts, because unkind thoughts create unkind words which create unkind actions, and everything begins with a thought.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 301	Facing Life|618	Love is decorating the home, bringing flowers into the home, arranging flowers in the home. It is cooking a wonderful meal and serving it properly. Love is cleaning and tidying up the home, bringing fresh air into the home so that those who come into the home are uplifted simply by being in the home.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 301	Facing Life|619	Love is meeting with the family daily, solving all the little problems, sharing and talking and understanding each other's minds and where they are in their consciousness. Love is being patient with people who have problems until the problems go away by talking them through.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 301	Facing Life|620	Religious leaders can help by teaching their congregations how to live in a world of differences without feeling threatened, without forcing their ways or will on others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		DWS 70	Facing Life|621	God has no names, but all names are the names of God. Whether you call Him this or that, He remains Who He is. But in our tradition we call God by the loving name Śiva, which is only one of His 1,008 traditional names. Supreme God Śiva is both within us and outside of us. Even desire, the fulfillment of desire, the joy, the pain, the sorrow, birth and death——this is all Śiva, nothing but Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 1	Siva|622	Those pursuing yoga, philosophy or mysticism separate from the foundation of day-to-day religion are like lone climbers treading through unknown territory, up unknown slopes. Theoretically they too can reach the summit. But realistically they do not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 305	Hinduism,Worship,Facing Life|623	We become attached because we do not stop to understand that the experiences that conceived the attachment were only a rapid, a waterfall or an old tree trunk blocking one of the little rivulets as it tried to merge with the great stream ever merging in­­to the ocean.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|624	The more willpower you use, the more you have to use.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Sadhana,Facing Life|625	Life is the classroom. Kar­ma is the teacher.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma|626	Act on this knowledge: all that comes to you, good and bad alike, is self-created and contains a les­son to be learned. Learn the lesson and be free.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Karma|627	So, don't come to me this morning and say, You gave a very nice upadeśa, Gurudeva. I really got so much out of it. Rather, come back in ten years and let me see by your radiant face how much you got out of it. That will make me happy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS, LESSON 237 - Growing Old Gracefully	Facing Life,Guru|629	The conscious mind is the real enemy, the real barrier, the real distractor to someone on the path of enlightenment. It is intriguing. It is the temptress. It leads us on and on and on, life after life after life after life after life after life after life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, LESSON 170  The Donkey And the Carrot	Meditation|632	Worship of Lord Gaṇeśa sets the path of dharma. Go to His feet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, LESSON 135  Your Will and The Gods' Will 	Gods,Worship,Facing Life|633	Getting rid of resistance, to be able to flow with the river of life, is what prapatti is all about.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, LESSON 135  Your Will and The Gods' Will 	Worship,Facing Life|634	What is the moment? We all know what the past is——many people live in the past, over and over again, and they never catch up with the present. Other people live in the future——but of course when they do, they are really only living in the past, too, and they never find the present either.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, LESSON 114  Torn Between Past and Future.	Facing Life|636	The young aspirant must become the experiencer, not the one who has experienced and basks in the memory patterns it caused. This is where the not-too-sought-after word discipline enters into the life... 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, LESSON 54  The Leaders Of Tomorrow	Sadhana|637	You have to be aware that each test is an opportunity for either failure or success, and it is all up to you. Circumstances will always present opportunities for failure, and your reasoning mind will always be able to say, I could have done nothing else under the circumstances.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, LESSON 101  Each Test Is an Opportunity	Facing Life|638	Don't be sad. When my body is gone, I will be on duty 24 hours a day. More even than now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|639	Live in harmony with one another. Don't argue. Help one another and carry forward my work and mission.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|640	Okay, okay. Positive. Everything that is happening is good. Everything that is happening is meant to be.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|641	Everything is done. Everything is complete.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|642	For peace in the world, stop the war in the home.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|643	Stand on your feet and lean on your back, everything else will fall into place.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|644	There is one thing God cannot do: God cannot separate Himself from us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		Dancing With Siva, Bhashya 1, p5	Siva|645	Love and blessings to you from this and inner worlds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|646	I love you, you love me.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|647	Proceed with confidence!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|649	Where awareness goes, energy flows.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS	Meditation|650	You have to experience It to know It. And by experiencing It, you do know It.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS	The Self|651	The Self God dwells within the lotus within the heart.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS, lesson 57, p91	The Self|652	I can. I will. I am able to accomplish what I plan.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS	Facing Life|653	Let every second be a second of discrimination. Let every minute be a minute of realization. Let every hour be an hour of fulfillment. Let every day be a day of blessing, and every week a week of joy. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 75	Facing Life|654	All other desires, all other aims and ambitions pale under the brilliance of even the thought of realization of Sat­chid­ānanda and Paraśiva. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 3	Facing Life,Siva|656	The best rule in making a decision is: when in doubt, do nothing. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 18	Facing Life|657	Find the place within you that has never ever changed, that's been the same for many lives, that feeling that has been the same within you since you were a little child up to this very time. Find that! Catch that vibration, and you've caught the vibration of the soul and identified it to your intellectual mind and your instinctive area of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 15	Meditation|658	The only thing that keeps the lower chakras closed is regular sādhana, japa, worship and working within oneself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 294	Facing Life,Sadhana,Worship,Meditation|659	Through daily sadhana we shall come to know the body, we shall come to know the emotions, we shall come to know the nerve system, we shall come to know the breath and we shall come to know the mind in its totality. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 88	Meditation,Sadhana|660	Spiritual life is a twenty-four-hour-a-day vigil.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 89	Sadhana,Facing Life|661	We learn to lean on our own spine more than on any other person, teacher, book, organization or system. Answers begin to become real and vibrant, hooked onto the end of each question. And these and many more are the dynamic rewards of the sincere aspirant who searches within through meditation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		MWS 82	Facing Life,Meditation|662	Set goals for deeper, more superconscious meditation, for a change of your personality or outer nature, for better service to your fellow man, and for a totally religious lifestyle.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		LWS 93	Facing Life|664	There is a point of view which resolves all contradictions and answers all questions. Yet to be experienced is yet to be understood. Once experienced and understood, the Quiet comes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|665	It is by means of worship of and meditation on God that our self-created sufferings are softened and assuaged.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Worship,Karma|666	I am the complete master of all my forces. My spiritual energies govern and control the force fields wherever I am for the highest good. Through understanding, being pure, full of spirited life, I am filled and thrilled with unlimited power, now and forever. I will be what I will to be. I will do what I will to do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|667	Our journey is within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|668	What does it mean to "get centered" and to "be centered"? Actually, what it means is to feel the primal source within, to feel so centered that you are the center.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|669	What is the “I am” that is aware?  That is the key to your entire study.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|670	You have to discover what awareness is before you realize the Self.  Otherwise realization of the Self is only a philosophy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			The Self,Meditation|671	Comprehension is superconsciousness, the actinic force flowing through the mind; and maintaining the consciousness of comprehension is having conscious control of the superconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|672	Be aware. Ask yourself, "Am I fully aware of myself and what I'm doing right now?"	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|673	Regular practice of meditation will bring you intensely into the eternity of the moment. Practice supersedes philosophy, advice, psychology and all pacifiers of the intellect.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|674	If you can live in the eternity of now, your life will be one of peace and fulfillment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|675	Through temple worship, the three worlds become open to one another, and the beings within them are able to communicate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Gods,Worship|676	Our religion has ways to combat stress and the diseases it causes, ways to avoid the mental anguish which this fast-paced world brings about.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism,Facing Life|677	It is a proven fact that religious people can cope with stress and strain better than nonreligious people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|678	Spiritual things you must understand with your heart, with your feeling. Feeling and thinking, working together, give you that deep understanding that you need to cognize the wisdom of the spirit.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|679	All you can do in living your life every day is to make today just a little bit better than yesterday was.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|680	Just as your thoughts and your words can make your body feel a certain way, in the very same way the spirit, or God, flowing through the mind, can illumine and does illumine the mind and purify it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Meditation|681	In facing your past, if your past is not exactly what you would like to look at, and you look at it and still react to it, you will create today as a day much worse than yesterday. You will not be living the spiritual life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|682	If you transgress the natural laws of the mind, hurt another instead of help another, discourage instead of encourage another person, then your mind will suffer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Karma,Facing Life|683	Because the vibration of the eternal now is so very high, part of your mind and nature does not like to experience the security of the eternal now, which is really the height of security.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|684	Finding the eternal now is a vibration even more powerful than that of sound or light, for you are in the consciousness of Being—being intensely aware, being very alive.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|685	When you become aware and start living in eternity, in the eternal now, you find that eternity is within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|687	So great is the power of worship, communion and communication with the centillion devas, that when a little bell is rung, a flame appears in the lamp, the vermilion spot is placed, the flower appears and is offered, God Siva and the Gods are invoked.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Worship,Gods|688	Contemplating the aftermath of puja or abhisheka, we feel the sannidhya or divine presence of Parashakti, tender motherly love, permeating to the outer walls around the temple.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Worship|689	To keep your spirit flowing, always allow yourself to be in the line of understanding. In other words, do not allow misunderstanding to arise in your mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|691	One can worship God anywhere and be in contact with the inner worlds—in the temple, in the home shrine and in the yogi's contemplation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Worship,Gods|692	It is only your spiritual being, your soul in action, bringing through the spirit, or bringing through God, that can control the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Meditation,Facing Life|693	Understand that the spirit within you flows through you, flows through the mind, like water flows through the Earth. If you build barriers, then you fight your own spiritual Being flowing through you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|694	You purify yourself by being kind to others, being generous until it hurts, being benevolent, being ready to serve at all times until you are strained in serving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|695	Put a smile on the faces of other people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|696	Gain your happiness and your positive states of mind by making other people happy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|697	Negative people are always worried about themselves. Positive people are concerned with the happiness of others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|698	If you refuse to do what you should do when you have the chance to do it, what hope is there for anybody else who does not even know what he should do?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|699	It is one thing to say "I am all right, right now," and it is another thing to feel it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|700	By realizing that you are all right this instant, that light of your soul has a chance to shine through the surrounding layers of the mind just a little, enough to calm your future. For your future is made in the present, in the eternal now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|702	When you quiet your mind, you live in the present. You are living within your soul, or the higher state of your mind which is undisturbed by the things of time.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|703	Give yourself in to the real you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|704	Regret possibly is an experience more harmful than the experience you have been regretting.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|705	The mind claims you, and therefore you think that your experiences are the real you, but they are not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Facing Life|706	Making the subconscious mind transparent is a basic religious practice. Only when this is first done is it possible to make progress in seeking God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Meditation|707	Renunciation and asceticism have been an integral component of Vedic culture from the earliest days, the most highly esteemed path of the Hindu Dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|708	Guided by the satguru along the sadhana marga, the initiated sannyasin unfolds through the years into deeper and deeper realizations.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Guru|709	When you have gained your inner strength, you will be able to sit in meditation for at least a half hour every day and practice being the guardian of every thought and the ruler of every feeling within your body. If you do this, you will realize That which is the center of your Being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation|710	The awakened soul is a joyous soul with a positive mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|711	Recognizing that all experience is but a fading dream, you are closer to the permanence within you that never changes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|712	The mind cannot bear the intensity of God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Siva,Meditation|713	Little by little you find that you are turning inward, opening up the inner channels more and more each day, making a greater and greater contact with God by turning within, drawing yourself ever closer to the pole at the center, the core of your Being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Meditation,Sadhana,Worship|749	Saiva Dharma. It is now as it always was.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Hinduism|751	The only rigid rule is wisdom, guided by tradition and virtue.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|753	In following dharma, the only rigid rule is wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Wisdom|820	We have seen religion give way to science and now science giving way to religion—just a little, but it’s a good omen.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/8	Wisdom|822	Moksha, from the root much or moksh, has many denotations: to loose, to free, release, let loose, let go and thus also to spare, to let live, to allow to depart, to dispatch, to dismiss and even to relax, to spend, bestow, give away and open. Thus it means “release from worldly existence or transmigration; final or eternal emancipation.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|823	Self Realization is man’'s natural state, which each soul eventually comes to. While the ultimate goal of earthly life is the experience (or more precisely the nonexperience) of Self Realization, the by-product of that realization is moksha. These two are not synonymous.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|824	What distinguishes the mukta from the nonliberated is his total freedom from all selfishness and attachments, his permanent abidance in the all-pervading Divine Presence, his lucid, witnessing consciousness and his jñāna, revealed in spontaneous utterances. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self,Hinduism|826	Smārtism is an ancient brāhmanical tradition reformed by Adi Sankara in the ninth century. Worshiping six forms of God, this liberal Hindu path is monistic, nonsectarian, meditative and philosophical. Īśvara and man are in reality Absolute Brahman. Within māyā, the soul and Īśvara appear as two. Jñāna, spiritual wisdom, dispels the illusion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|827	Ashṭāṅga yoga, also called rāja yoga, has eight successive steps, each one dependent upon the one that precedes it. These eight successive steps are yama (restraint), niyama (observance), āsana (posture), prāṇāyāma (breath control), pratyāhāra (sense withdrawal), dhāraṇā (concentration), dhyāna (meditation) and samādhi (contemplation). 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana|828	For the entire system of ashṭāṅga yoga to work, a firm philosophical-cultural foundation, as found in Dancing with Śiva and Living with Śiva, must be subconsciously accepted by the devotee as his own way of looking at and living life, relating it to experience, solving problems, approaching worship and so forth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana|829	Once our whole philosophical structure is in line with Śaiva Siddhānta thinking, it is easy to throw the mind into meditation. Then when we are working in our daily life, involved in external things and material affairs, the point of reference is that the energy within and the core of the energy and the Self itself are real. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Meditation|831	We learn that man is not man, man is God, and that the inherent nature of his soul is divine, existing in perfect oneness with God. This identity of the soul with God always exists and awaits man’s awakening into realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/18	Siva|833	Once our whole philosophical structure is in line with Śaiva Siddhānta thinking, it is easy to throw the mind into meditation. Then when we are working in our daily life, involved in external things and material affairs, the point of reference is that the energy within and the core of the energy and the Self itself are real. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	The Self,Hinduism|834	Ashṭāṅga yoga, also called rāja yoga, has eight successive steps, each one dependent upon the one that precedes it. These eight successive steps are yama (restraint), niyama (observance), āsana (posture), prāṇāyāma (breath control), pratyāhāra (sense withdrawal), dhāraṇā (concentration), dhyāna (meditation) and samādhi (contemplation). 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana|835	For the entire system of ashṭāṅga yoga to work, a firm philosophical-cultural foundation, as found in Dancing with Śiva and Living with Śiva, must be subconsciously accepted by the devotee as his own way of looking at and living life, relating it to experience, solving problems, approaching worship and so forth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Hinduism|836	Every soul’s ultimate goal, in this life or another, is to realize its oneness with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/26	Siva|837	Man’s ultimate quest, the final evolutionary frontier, is within man himself. It is the Truth spoken by Vedic ṛishis as the Self within man, attainable through control of the mind and purification.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|839	When karma is controlled through yoga and dharma well performed, and the energies are transmuted to their ultimate state, the Vedic Truth of life discovered by the ṛishis so long ago becomes obvious. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Karma,Sadhana,Hinduism|841	One comes back and back again into flesh simply to realize Paraśiva. Nothing more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva|842	The Self, or Paraśiva, is an experience only after it has been experienced. Yet, it is not an experience at all, but the only possible nonexperience, which registers in its aftermath upon the mind of man. Prior to that, it is a goal. After realization, one thing is lost, the desire for the Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|843	Paraśiva is an experience that can be likened to the hand feeling and the eyes seeing one’s own face for the first time. But it is not experience of one thing discovering another, as in the discovery of one’s face. It is the Self experiencing itself. Experience, experienced and experiencer are one and the same. This is why it is only registered on the external mind in retrospect. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|844	The Self, Paraśiva, can be realized only when the devotee turns away from the world and enters the cave within as a way of life through initiation and under vows. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|846	When the soul is spiritually mature, we know when we’re ready to know the Self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|847	Worship of Lord Gaṇeśa sets the path of dharma. Go to His feet. He alone can perform this miracle for you. He will release the mental and emotional obstructions to spiritual progress. He will remove the burdens of worldliness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Gods|848	To live the perfect life of the gṛihastha dharma, of family life, brings as its fulfillment the all-knowing bliss of Sat­chid­ānanda, realizing ourself not as formless Paraśiva but as the pure consciousness that sustains and pervades all forms in the universe. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life|849	Yes, there is a sense of urgency on the path of enlightenment, but only when we are unburdened of karma, only when we are walking the path of dharma. Only then can true yoga be practiced and perfected.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Karma,Sadhana|850	All other desires, all other aims and ambitions pale under the brilliance of even the thought of realization of Sat­chid­ānanda and Paraśiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|851	It is our past that colors and conditions, actually creates, the future. We purge the past in the present, and we fashion the future in the present.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Karma|852	Ours is the path of not only endeavoring to awaken the higher nature, but at the same time and toward the same end dealing positively and consciously with the remnants of the lower nature, replacing charity for greed and dealing with, rather than merely suppressing, jealousy, hatred and anger.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Karma|854	Before we actually begin serious sādhana, we must understand ourselves better, understand the three phases of the mind: instinctive, intellectual and superconscious. This takes time, meditation and study—study that must culminate in actual experience of the instinctive mind, the intellectual mind and the transcendent sub­superconscious state of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Meditation|856	We must live in the now to follow the path to enlightenment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life|857	Living in the past or the future obstructs us in this way: the past, by reliving old experiences—mainly the negative ones, for they are vividly remembered—clouds our vision of the future. Living in the future overactivates the intellect, the emotion and the desires. The future is little more than another form of mental fantasy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life|859	To attain even the permission to perform yoga one must have the grace of Lord Gaṇeśa and the grace of Lord Murugan.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Gods|861	It is God and Gods in form that help us to find the formless God. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self,Gods|863	We only see opposites when our vision is limited, when we have not experienced totally. There is a point of view which resolves all contradictions and answers all questions. Yet to be experienced is yet to be understood. Once experienced and understood, the Quiet comes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Meditation,Facing Life|864	“All are our teachers: some teach us what to do, others teach us what not to do.” The decision as to which of these two paths to follow is ours and ours alone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/8	Facing Life|865	You do not have to be a saint, sage, philosopher or anything but an ordinary person to experience inner light. This experience makes you an extraordinary person. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Meditation|867	Our Hindu scriptures come from such great men, men who have attained to the deepest realizations through their sādhana and their devotion. Their awareness dwells in the superconscious states resident in all men but penetrated intentionally by only a few, and when they speak out from that state, we consider that it is not man himself who has thus spoken, but the Divine through man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|868	Rishi Tirumular was such a knower of the Unknowable, who held Truth in the palm of his hand, and his words are valued as a divine message for mankind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|869	Having lived many lives, each soul seeks release from mortality, experiences the Divine directly through Self Realization and ultimately attains moksha, liberation from the round of births and deaths. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|870	The religions of India are unique in their knowledge of the soul’s spiritual evolution through a multitude of physical incarnations.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|873	Moksha, from the root much or moksh, has many denotations: to loose, to free, release, let loose, let go and thus also to spare, to let live, to allow to depart, to dispatch, to dismiss and even to relax, to spend, bestow, give away and open. Thus it means “release from worldly existence or transmigration; final or eternal emancipation.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|874	Moksha is not a state of extinction of the soul, nor of nonexistence, nor of nonconsciousness. It is perfect freedom, an indescribable state of nondifferentiation, a proximity to the Divine within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|875	Moksha marks an end to the Earthly sojourn, but it may also be understood as a beginning, not unlike graduation from the university. Kaivalya is another apt term for this ineffable condition of perfect detachment, freedom and oneness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|876	To reach this emancipation beyond all joy and sorrow, all difference and decay, the soul must remove, in order, the three fetters: karma, which is “the power of cause and effect, action and reaction;” māyā, which is “the power of manifestation” sometimes called illusion; and āṇava, “the power of egoity or veil of duality.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma,Hinduism|877	Once freed by God’s grace from these bonds—which do not cease to exist, but no longer have the power to bind—the soul experiences nirvikalpa samādhi. This is the realization of the Self, Atattva Parabrahman—timeless, formless, spaceless—a oneness beyond all change or diversity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|878	Self Realization is man’s natural state, which each soul eventually comes to. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|879	While the ultimate goal of earthly life is the experience (or more precisely the nonexperience) of Self Realization, the by-product of that realization is moksha. These two are not synonymous. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|880	While some sects of Hinduism teach that liberation comes only upon death, most embrace the state of jīvanmukti, liberation in which the advanced soul unfolds its inherent perfection while alive. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|881	It is possible to realize the Self and still not reach the emancipated state. If this happens, the soul would return and in its next birth easily become a jīvanmukta by virtue of the past realization. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|882	What distinguishes the mukta from the nonliberated is his total freedom from all selfishness and attachments, his permanent abidance in the all-pervading Divine Presence, his lucid, witnessing consciousness and his jñāna, revealed in spontaneous utterances. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|883	To attain liberation while living, the realization of the Self has to be brought through into every aspect of life, every atom of one’s body. This occurs after many encounters with nirvikalpa samādhi. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|884	Through harnessing the power of sādhana and tapas, the adept advances his evolution, moving ahead ten lives or more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana|885	Only great tapasvins achieve jīvanmukti, for to catalyze the death of the astral body and then revive the life forces, one must be proficient in brahmacharya, yoga, prāṇāyāma and the varied sādhanas. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana|887	Non-yogīs may be freed at death, provided all karmas have been worked out and the Self is realized as the body is released. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|888	Even having attained perfect liberation, a soul may consciously choose to be reborn to help others on the path. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|890	The concept of moksha for every Hindu sect is informed and modified by its understanding of the soul and its relationship to God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|891	Most Smārtas believe that moksha is achieved through jñāna yoga alone—defined as an intellectual and meditative but non-kuṇḍalinī yoga path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|892	The ultimate goal of Smārtas is to realize oneself as Brahman—the Absolute and only Reality. For this, one must conquer the state of avidyā, or ignorance, which causes the world to appear as real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,The Self|893	All illusion has vanished for the realized being, jīvanmukta, even as he lives out life in the physical body. If the sun were cold or the moon hot or fire burned downward, he would show no wonder. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|894	The jīvanmukta teaches, blesses and sets an example for the welfare of the world. At death, his inner and outer bodies are extinguished. Brahman alone exists and he is That forever, all in All.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self,Hinduism|895	Jñāna yoga’s progressive stages are scriptural study (śravaṇa), reflection (manana) and sustained meditation (dhyāna). 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana,Meditation|897	Scripture teaches, “For the great-souled, the surest way to liberation is the conviction that I am Brahman’ ” (Śukla Yajur Veda, Paiṅgala Upanishad 4.19 UPR, P. 923).	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,The Self|898	Sri Jayendra Saraswathi of Kanchi Peedam, Tamil Nadu, India, affirms, “That state where one transcends all feelings is liberation. Nothing affects this state of being. You may call it transcendental bliss,’ purified intuition that enables one to see the Supreme as one’s own Self. One attains to Brahman, utterly liberated.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|899	Within māyā, the soul and Īśvara appear as two. Jñāna, spiritual wisdom, dispels the illusion. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Wisdom|900	The primary goal of Vaishṇavites is videhamukti, disembodied liberation—attainable only after death—when the small self realizes union with God Vishṇu’s body as a part of Him, yet maintains its pure individual personality. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|901	Most Vaishṇavites believe that religion is the performance of bhakti sādhanas, and that man can communicate with and receive the grace of Lord Vishṇu who manifests through the temple Deity, or idol. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|902	Vaishṇavites consider the moksha of the advaita philosophies a lesser attainment, preferring instead the bliss of eternal devotion. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|903	Śāktas believe the soul is one with God Śiva. Emphasis is given to the Feminine Manifest by which the Masculine Unmanifest is ultimately reached.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|904	Moksha is complete identification with the transcendent God Śiva, achieved when the kuṇḍalinī śakti power is raised through the sushumṇā current of the spine to the top of the head to unite with Śiva. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|905	The spiritual practices in Śāktism are similar to those in Śaivism, though there is more emphasis in Śāktism on God’s Power as opposed to Being, on mantras and yantras, and on embracing apparent opposites: male-female, absolute-relative, pleasure-pain, cause-effect, mind-body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|906	The state of jīvanmukti in Śāktism is called kulāchāra, “the divine way of life,” attained through sādhana and grace. The liberated soul is known as kaula, to whom wood and gold, life and death are the same. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|907	The path for Śaivites is divided into four progressive stages of belief and practice called charyā, kriyā, yoga and jñāna. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Sadhana|908	The soul evolves through karma and reincarnation from the instinctive-intellectual sphere into virtuous and moral living, then into temple worship and devotion, followed by internalized worship or yoga and its meditative disciplines. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma,Worship,Meditation,Sadhana|909	Union with God Śiva comes through the grace of the satguru and culminates in the soul’s maturity in the state of jñāna, or wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Guru|910	Śaivism values both bhakti and yoga, devotional and contemplative sādhanas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|911	Moksha is defined differently in Śaivism’s six schools.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|912	Pāśupata Śaivism emphasizes Śiva as supreme cause and personal ruler of the soul and world. It teaches that the liberated soul retains its individuality in a state of complete union with Śiva. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|913	Vīra Śaivism holds that after liberation the soul experiences a true union and identity of Śiva and soul, called Liṅga and aṅga. The soul ultimately merges in a state of Śūnya, or Nothingness, which is not an empty void. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|914	Kashmīr Śaivism teaches that liberation comes through a sustained recognition, called pratyabhijñā, of one’s true Self as nothing but Śiva. After liberation, the soul has no merger in God, as God and soul are eternally nondifferent. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|915	In Gorakhnāth Śaivism, or Siddha Siddhānta, moksha leads to a complete sameness of Śiva and soul, described as “bubbles arising and returning to water.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|916	In Śiva Advaita, liberation leads to the “ākāśa within the heart.” Upon death, the soul goes to Śiva along the path of the Gods, continuing to exist on the spiritual plane, enjoying the bliss of knowing all as Śiva, and attaining all powers except creation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|917	Śaiva Siddhānta has two sub-sects.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|918	Meykandar’s pluralistic realism teaches that God, soul and world are eternally coexistent. Liberation leads to a state of oneness with Śiva, in which the soul retains its individuality, like salt added to water. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|919	Tirumular’s monistic theism, or Advaita Īśvaravāda, reflected in Merging with Śiva, holds that evolution continues after earthly births until jīva becomes Śiva, the soul merges in perfect oneness with God, like a drop of water returning to the sea.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|920	Scriptures teach, “Having realized the Self, the ṛishis, perfected souls, satisfied with their knowledge, passion-free, tranquil—those wise beings, having attained the Omnipresent on all sides—enter into the All itself” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|921	Moksha does not mean death, as some misunderstand it. It means freedom from rebirth before or after death, after which souls continue evolving in the Antarloka and Śivaloka, and finally merge with Lord Śiva as does river water when returning to the ocean.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|922	Moksha comes when all earthly karmas have been fully resolved. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma|923	The Vedas promise, “If here one is able to realize Him before the death of the body, he will be liberated from the bondage of the world.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|924	All embodied souls—whatever be their faith or convictions, Hindu or not—are destined to achieve moksha, but not necessarily in this life. Śaivites know this and do not delude themselves that this life is the last. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Facing Life|925	Old souls renounce worldly ambitions and take up sannyāsa in quest of Paraśiva even at a young age.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|926	Younger souls desire to seek lessons from the experiences of worldly life which is rewarded by many, many births on Earth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma|927	Old souls renounce worldly ambitions and take up sannyāsa in quest of Paraśiva even at a young age. Younger souls desire to seek lessons from the experiences of worldly life which is rewarded by many, many births on Earth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma,The Self|928	After moksha has been attained—and it is an attainment resulting from much sādhana, self-reflection and realization—subtle karmas are made and swiftly resolved, like writing on water.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma|929	Finally, at the end of each soul’s evolution comes viśvagrāsa, total absorption in Śiva. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|931	God Śiva is all and in all, one without a second, the Supreme Being and only Absolute Reality. He is Pati, our Lord, immanent and transcendent. To create, preserve, destroy, conceal and reveal are His five powers. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|932	God Śiva is a one being, yet we understand Him in three perfections: Absolute Reality, Pure Consciousness and Primal Soul. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|933	As Absolute Reality, Śiva is unmanifest, unchanging and transcendent, the Self God, timeless, formless and spaceless.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|934	As Pure Consciousness, Śiva is the manifest primal substance, pure love and light flowing through all form, existing everywhere in time and space as infinite intelligence and power.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|935	As Primal Soul, Śiva is the five-fold manifestation: Brahmā, the Creator; Vishṇu, the Preserver; Rudra, the Destroyer; Maheśvara, the Veiling Lord, and Sadāśiva, the Revealer. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|936	God Śiva is all and in all, great beyond our conception, a sacred mystery that can be known in direct communion. Yea, when Śiva is known, all is known. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|937	The Vedas state: That part of Him which is characterized by tamas is called Rudra. That part of Him which belongs to rajas is Brahmā. That part of Him which belongs to sattva is Vishṇu’ ” (Kṛishṇa Yajur Veda, Maitrī Upanishad 5.2 BO UPH).	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|938	Merger on the great inner path described in this book is already happening in your life and in the life of every soul on the planet, in the natural course of evolution.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|939	In Sanskrit, we express “Merging with Śiva” as Śivasāyujya, “Intimate union with the Divine.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|940	Nine progressive ways of merging with Śiva are possible today, in fact impossible to avoid. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|941	A jīva, or soul, merges with his potential mother who gives a physical body to which his astral body is attached. This is the first merger.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|942	When the individual's first guru, the parents, train him to quell the instinctive mind and become a producing member of the family and the social and global communities, the second merger occurs. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|943	Śiva is the life of the life of all sentient and insentient beings, the sea of prāṇa, ever emanating, mysteriously, from the All of the Allness of His mystery Being, by which all life exists and all happenings happen. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|945	Obedience and devotion to the guru is again another merger into Śivaness, for the satguru is Sadāśiva, or Śiva in form, having realized Śiva in Formlessness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Guru|946	It is from the satguru’s constant, silent emanation that the śishya thrives, as do flowering trees, bushes and vines thrive and grow from the sun’s silent rays and the occasional showers of rain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Guru|948	The seventh merger is into the nāda-nāḍī śakti, that unrelenting sound heard as an inexplainable “eee,” of a thousand vīṇās being played simultaneously by Vīṇādhāra, another form of Lord Śiva, the maker of sound, the composer of the symphony.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|950	The eighth merger with Śiva is Paraśiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|951	Becoming and being timeless, formless, spaceless is the total transformation of the soul body, the mental body, the astral body, the prāṇic body and the physical body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|953	And now, lastly, once the soul evolves out of the physical, prāṇic, emotional, mental and causal sheaths—annamaya, prāṇamaya, manomaya, vijñānamaya and ānandamaya kośas—and they are needed no more, it evolves into viśvagrāsa, the ninth and final merger with Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|955	Yes, the soul, jīva, encased in five bodies, is indeed merged into the emanator, preserver and absorber of the inner and outer universes as simply as a drop of water merges into the ocean, never to be found again. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|956	As a seed becomes a bud, and a bud becomes a flower, these nine steps of spiritual unfoldment are inevitable for all humankind. A parallel analysis known as dasakariyam, “ten attainments,” is found in ancient Tamil texts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|957	“Follow inner orders.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Facing Life,Wisdom|958	Because our philosophy is being devoted to Śiva in everyone, we support every Hindu sect equally.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|959	Our strength is in having oneness with all the Hindus around the world, even though our philosophical, doctrinal and cultural approaches may differ somewhat. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|961	But back to the beginning—the Self is all-pervasive energy, within and through all creation, and transcends even that as being timeless, formless and spaceless. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|962	In today’s world there are many institutions and teachers presenting kuṇḍalinī yoga as an elixir of life. True, it can be stimulated upward, but it then goes downward because of the lack of control of the emotions, lower instinctive nature and lack of philosophical background.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana|963	As a thermometer reacts to heat and cold, so does the kuṇḍalinī when tampered with by the novice under the guidance of commercialization. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana|966	If the lower is not closed off, no one should be introduced into deep meditation, intense prāṇāyāma and occult arts, such as Reiki. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Meditation,Sadhana|968	The experience of Satchidānanda, the all-pervasive essence of prāṇa, can be had through bhakti yoga, total prapatti.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Worship,Siva|969	Our scriptures tell us the Self is timeless, causeless, spaceless, beyond mind, form and causation. It is what it is, to be realized to be known. It is the fullness of everything and the absence of nothing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|971	Five, six, eight thousand years ago, Indian society developed over long centuries to a maturity sufficient to bring forth from the inner of the inner, the core of knowledge itself, the Vedas, four in number, called śruti, meaning revealed by God, not composed by man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|972	Meditate upon the following verse and revel in its deep, deep meaning: “He who knows God as the Life of life, the Eye of the eye, the Ear of the ear, the Mind of the mind, he indeed comprehends fully the Cause of all causes” (Śukla Yajur Veda, Bṛihadāraṇyaka Upanishad 4.4.18, UPP).	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|974	“As water poured into water, milk poured into milk, ghee into ghee become one without differentiation, even so the individual soul and the Supreme Self become one” (Śukla Yajur Veda, Paiṅgala Upanishad 4.10 upr, p. 921).	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|975	On the rāja and jñāna yoga path, in attempts to realize Paraśiva, we go to the brink of the Absolute, hover there like a hummingbird over a flower, listening to the nāda, at the brink of where the nāda comes from, being the light at the brink of where the light that lights the images of the mind comes from, and this is all we can do—our one step. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|977	This is why Śaiva Siddhānta is so great—you move toward God; God moves toward you. You look at God; God looks toward you more graciously, more intently. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|978	The Divine comes quickly when the carnal is transmuted into its essence. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|979	You take one step toward God, and He immediately, in the flash of a blink, takes nine toward you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|980	In Śaiva Siddhānta, God is the devotee, and He experiences Himself within Himself in His devotee. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|981	The devotee is the devotee of Śiva, endeavoring to experience himself in his God. This process is called yoga, rāja yoga, of which jñāna yoga is a by-product of the results and accomplishments along the way. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Sadhana|983	The mind cannot realize the Self. Awareness cannot realize the Self. Consciousness cannot realize the Self. There can be no name for the Self. To name it is to disqualify it into form. This is why in the incomparable Shūm language it has no name, only īmkaīf, awareness aware of itself dissolving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|985	Step one is for the student to prove to himself that he can work positively in the world, performing his duties with full energy, intuiting how the whole mechanism of life is constructed—the exterior world, his mind, himself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Facing Life,Sadhana|986	It comes down to readjusting our thinking and making our point of reference the reality within ourselves instead of the reality and permanence of the external world of things, forms and fancy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Facing Life,Sadhana|987	You create the new habit patterns by doing everything as best you can, with as much forethought and as much energy as you can command. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	Facing Life|988	Having the Self as a point of reality reference and not the material things, with the life force constantly flooding through these nerve currents, you are actually seeing what you are doing as part of the cosmic dance of Śiva, as the energy of Śiva flows in and through you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/15	The Self,Facing Life,Siva|989	We learn that man is not man, man is God, and that the inherent nature of his soul is divine, existing in perfect oneness with God. This identity of the soul with God always exists and awaits man’s awakening into realization. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/18	Siva|990	May all souls live in the Grace of our Supreme God Śiva—creator, preserver and destroyer of all that is good, bad, confused and indifferent, the source of grace, the author of dharma, the giver of all good things, the light and love of the world—who has always, does always, will always spread His goodness and glory everywhere.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/7	Siva|991	Most people think of themselves as remote from God, but the highest souls are living with Him every day, no matter what they are doing. They are living with God, whom we call Śiva, while working, while driving or performing ordinary chores.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva,Facing Life|993	See Śiva as the life and light within everyone’s eyes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva,Facing Life|994	Living with Śiva is living with everyone—every reptile, fish, fowl, animal and creature, to the very smallest—in a consciousness of the one life force within all of them that sustains this perfect universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva,Facing Life|995	Truly, God Śiva is everywhere. He is the energy within our mind manifesting thought. He is the thought thus made manifest. He is the light within your eyes and the feel within your fingers. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|996	God Śiva is the ignorance which makes the One seem as two. He is the karma, which is the law of cause and effect, and He is the māyā, which is the substance of evolution in which we become so deeply immersed that we look upon the outside world as more real than God. God Śiva is all this and more.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|997	God Śiva is the Sun, the Earth and the spaces between. He is the revealed scriptures and those who have scribed the scriptures. He is all who seek the wisdom of scripture, too. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|998	Śiva dances in every atom throughout this universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1000	Śiva is the Self, and He is the energy we put forth to know the Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva,The Self|1001	Śiva is All and in all. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1002	Siva is the mystery which makes us see Him as separate from us. He is the energy of life, the power in the wind. He is the dissolution called death, the peace of motionless air. He is the great force of the ocean and the stillness on a calm lake. Śiva is All and in all. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1003	Our great God Śiva is beyond time, beyond space, beyond form and form’s creation, and yet He uses time and causes form. He is in the sky, in the clouds, in the swirling galaxies.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1004	Śiva’s cosmic dance of creation, preservation and dissolution is happening this very moment in every atom of the cosmos.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1005	Supreme God Śiva is immanent, with a beautiful human-like form which can actually be seen and has been seen by many mystics in visions. Śiva is also transcendent, beyond time, cause and space. Such are the mysteries of Śiva’s being. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1006	Śiva has three perfections: Paraśiva, Satchidānanda and Maheśvara. As Paraśiva, He is the Self, beyond time, form and space. As Satchidānanda, He is all-pervasive love, light and consciousness flowing through every atom of existence. As Maheśvara, He is the Primal Soul, the Supreme Being who creates, preserves and destroys what we term existence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1008	I urge all Śaivites, devotees of God Śiva, to worship Him as the God of Love and in doing so to become beings of love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1009	Simply love God Śiva and let that love radiate out into the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1010	Śaivites strong in the love of God Śiva are bringing those Śaivites who have strayed into alien religions back to Śiva’s feet. They are drawing back into Śaivism those who have been enthralled with Western notions or ensnared in atheistic, existential doubt. So strong is their adoration for God and their compassion for their fellow Śaivites. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Siva|1011	From a psychological point of view, when the subconscious is at odds with soul qualities, with the basic laws of how we intuitively know what we should be doing, when the past of unsoulful deeds carries into the present, we are not able to live with Śiva. Instead, we are living with humans, living with problems, living with the conflicting forces of the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1012	At this time in the Kali Yuga, ignorance is equally distributed worldwide, and wisdom has become an endangered species.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1013	Forbearance, tolerance and compassion are not as popular today as they once were and perhaps may be at some future time when the darkness of ignorance is removed from the hearts of all people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1014	Today, and in every era, people young and old do want to discuss matters of the family. But all too often when questions arise, answers are avoided or, if given, are irrelevant.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1015	Many things in the world are wrong, certainly, but they do not have to be that way, since Hindus do have a traditional, proven way to follow. We do. It is the ancient Hindu path of the wise ṛishis, so well articulated, though sometimes too well hidden, in our sacred scriptures.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life,Wisdom|1017	Of course, now, as in ages past, there are those dedicated to being nonconformist, committed to noncommitment, who discipline themselves to avoid a disciplined life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1018	Ardent, convinced seekers must be tolerant and understanding of the woes and wants of less-disciplined souls.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1019	In the final analysis, it is up to each individual to cultivate soul qualities that are already resident within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1021	Proceed with confidence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1023	The yesterdays cannot be adjusted or corrected until we meet them with a new attitude born of knowledge and wisdom in the tomorrows of our future.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1024	We are bound together by bands of steel, as are all worshipers of our Supreme Lord Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life,Hinduism|1025	Proceed with confidence. Don’t look back. Fear not what others say or do. There is a new world tomorrow, and you are a vital part of it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1026	Families are the central, functioning hub, where the head of the family looks to his kulaguru for advice, to the family priest for ceremony and sacraments, where children are raised as dependents until fully matured, well educated to eventually inherit the family wealth to maintain the traditions, culture and proprieties as they have been dutifully taught. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/11	Facing Life|1027	Ashṭāṅga yoga, also called rāja yoga, has eight successive steps, each one dependent upon the one that precedes it. These eight successive steps are yama (restraint), niyama (observance), āsana (posture), prāṇāyāma (breath control), pratyāhāra (sense withdrawal), dhāraṇā (concentration), dhyāna (meditation) and samādhi (contemplation). 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/13	Sadhana|1029	Once our whole philosophical structure is in line with Śaiva Siddhānta thinking, it is easy to throw the mind into meditation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/13	Meditation|1031	The key is to put more energy into each activity you are engaged in.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/13	Facing Life,Meditation|1034	You create the new habit patterns by doing everything as best you can, with as much forethought and as much energy as you can command. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/13	Facing Life|1036	Leaders of the United Nations dedicated 1994 as the International Year of the Family. They were seeking to counter a global failure of the family unit and the by-products of such a breakdown: crime, delinquent youth, disobedient children, divorce and other household miseries, in other words the basic problems of social instability.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life|1037	We summon the spiritual values which continue to sustain the traditional household and offer a pledge of well-being for family members and a promise of perpetuation of cultural ways and wisdoms. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life|1038	Hindu families all over the world are struggling—some failing, most succeeding. Our experience is that those most rooted in their Hinduness cope better and are the better survivors.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life|1041	The Western materialistic goal is personal fulfillment, while the Eastern religious ideal is fulfillment of duty—duty to one’s parents, one’s society and one’s country, which includes tradition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life,Wisdom|1043	A Hindu never pities a sacrifice, but glorifies it with appreciation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life,Hinduism|1044	If a guest comes to a family, even unannounced, he is invited in warmly and asked about his well being. He is also served the best food in the house.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism|1045	Hinduism taught us the love of all living creatures.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life,Hinduism|1046	Only in the faiths of India does one encounter the tenet that we all experience a multitude of families in our journey toward God. In birth after birth we evolve, our tradition assures. In family after family we grow and mature and learn. Thus, in the Hindu family we find that the past and the future are intricately bound together.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1047	Thus, the spiritual insight into rebirth extends the family concept beyond the present, binding the present to the past, and promising further continuity with the future.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1049	Hinduism teaches a constellation of principles which, if followed by husband and wife, make the bold assertion that preserving the marriage and the integrity of the family holds rewards that far outweigh benefits they might expect from separation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1050	When dharma is the shared ideal of every family member—as opposed to self-fulfillment or social-economic objectives—it is easier to navigate troubled waters, easier to persist in seasons of loss or lack, in times of emotional or mental difficulty. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Wisdom,Facing Life|1051	The Hindu family believes, in its heart, that even life’s difficulties are part of God’s purpose and the fruition of each member’s past karmas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1053	The belief in karma—the law by which our thoughts, words and deeds reap their natural reactions—helps hold a family together, not unlike the crew of a storm-tossed ship would never think of jumping overboard when the going gets rough, but work together to weather the crisis, with their shared goal lying beyond the immediate difficulty.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1054	There are many other ideals that help a family survive in Hinduism. An important one is that father and mother are the children’s first guru, first teacher of things of the spirit. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1056	In the strict Hindu family there is a clear and well-understood hierarchy, based fundamentally on age. Younger members are taught to respect and follow the directions from their elders, and to cherish and protect those younger than themselves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1058	Daily worship in the home is a unique Hindu contribution to family sharing. Of course, faith is a shared experience in all religious households. But the Hindu takes it a step further, sanctifying the home itself with a beautiful shrine room—a kind of miniature temple right in the house. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1059	In Hindu culture, family and spirituality are intimately intertwined.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Facing Life,Hinduism|1063	Dowry is another threat to the Hindu family. Its economic and social costs are extraordinary, weighing down the wage-earner in a way hardly to be believed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism,Facing Life|1064	It is significant that Hindus, numbering over one billion today, constitute sixteen percent of the human race. One out of every six people on the planet is a Hindu.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism|1065	On the optimistic side, as much as eighty percent of Hindus live in rural India, in the 700,000 small villages which remain less affected by outside influences and thus retain the promise of carrying on the traditional ways, including language, religion and custom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism|1066	A kuṭumba or kula is the Hindu social unit consisting of several generations of kindred living together under the same roof or in a joining compound.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism|1071	Vasudhaiva kuṭumbakam—“The whole world is one family.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism|1072	Leaving the womb, we enter another complex system of support, protection and nurturing. The family is an intricate web of relationships in which we grow from birth to maturity and old age, from ignorance to knowledge and from the cycles of death to immortality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/16	Hinduism|1073	For World Peace,  Stop the War in the Home 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Hinduism,Wisdom|1074	To stop the wars in the world, our best long-term solution is to stop the war in the home. It is here that hatred begins, that animosities with those who are different from us are nurtured, that battered children learn to solve their problems with violence. This is true of every religious community. Not one is exempt. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1076	In our homes when we strike our children, we teach everybody to beat everybody else.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Facing Life,Wisdom|1079	Children will know with the first slap that they are hated, no longer wanted. Where are they to go? 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1081	Sadly, in this day and age, beating the kids is just a way of life in many families. Nearly everyone was beaten a little as a child, so they beat their kids, and their kids will beat their kids, and those kids will beat their kids.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1083	I’ve had Hindus tell me, “Slapping or caning children to make them obey is just part of our culture.” I don’t think so. Hindu culture is a culture of kindness. Hindu culture teaches ahiṁsā, noninjury, physically, mentally and emotionally.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom,Hinduism|1084	Hitting or slapping children may be British Christian culture—which for 150 years taught Hindus in India the Biblical adage, “Spare the rod and spoil the child“—but it’s not Hindu culture to beat the light out of the eyes of children, to beat the trust out of them, to beat the intelligence out of them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom,Hinduism|1085	If you know about the crime of a beating of a child or a wife, you are party to that crime unless you do something to protect that wife or to protect that child. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1087	So, knowing that so much child abuse is happening behind a wall of silence, what do we do? Call one of our attorneys, call one of our missionary families and say, “Call the police. Have them watch this family very closely, to protect this child."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1088	The abuser one day becomes the abused.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Karma,Wisdom|1089	Killers come from among those who have been beaten. The slap and pinch, the sting of the paddle, the lash of the strap, the blows of a cane must manifest through those who receive them into the lives of others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1090	The abuser one day becomes the abused. This is a law of life seen manifesting every day. It is called karma. Action gives an equal or more intense reaction, depending on the intent and the emotion behind it. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Karma,Wisdom|1091	Action gives an equal or more intense reaction, depending on the intent and the emotion behind it. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Karma,Wisdom|1092	Corporal punishment is arguably a prelude to gangs on the streets.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1094	Holding the family together can be summed up in one word: love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom,Facing Life|1095	Love is understanding. Love is acceptance. Love is making somebody feel good about his experience, whether the experience is a good one or not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1096	Love is giving the assurance that there is no need to keep secrets, no matter what has happened. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1097	When harmony persists in the home, harmony abides in the community, and harmony exists in the country. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1098	When love and trust is in the family, love and trust extend to the local community, and if enough homes have this harmony among members, the entire country becomes stronger and more secure.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/17	Wisdom|1099	My satguru, Śiva Yogaswami, was a great siddha, a master and a knower of God. He would say, “Liberation is within you."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1100	Liberation is within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1101	As we go on through life, we see only parts of life. We don’t see the whole. We can’t see the whole.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1102	Occasionally a more mature soul breaks away from this cycle of desire-fulfillment-pleasure-loss-pain-suffering-and-joy and asks questions such as: “Who is God? Where is God? How can I come to know God?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Wisdom|1103	God has no names, but all names are the names of God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1105	Supreme God Śiva is both within us and outside of us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1106	Even desire, the fulfillment of desire, the joy, the pain, the sorrow, birth and death—this is all Śiva, nothing but Śiva. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Facing Life|1107	God gave the law of karma, decreeing that each energy sent into motion returns with equal force.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Karma|1108	Supreme God Śiva is both within us and outside of us. Even desire, the fulfillment of desire, the joy, the pain, the sorrow, birth and death—this is all Śiva, nothing but Śiva. This is hard to believe for the unenlightened individual who cannot see how a good, kind and loving God could create pain and sorrow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1109	We create our own joy, our own pain, our own sorrow and our own release from sorrow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom,Karma|1110	It takes much meditation to find God Śiva in all things, through all things. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1112	Śiva is the immanent personal Lord, and He is transcendent Reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1113	Śiva is a God of love, boundless love.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1115	God Śiva is everywhere. There is no place where Śiva is not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1117	God Śiva is, and is in all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1119	God Śiva is so close to us. Where does He live? In the Third World. And in this form He can talk and think and love and receive our prayers and guide our karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1121	So always worship this great God Siva. Never fear Him. He is the Self of your self. He is closer than your own breath. His nature is love, and if you worship Him with devotion you will know love and be loving toward others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1122	Devotees of God Śiva love everyone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1123	God Śiva can be seen everywhere and in everyone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1125	Little by little, discipline yourself to meditate at the same time each day.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Sadhana,Meditation|1127	Can you just contemplate what it would take to seek the all-pervasive Śiva from hour to hour, throughout the day?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Meditation,Sadhana|1129	The external mind is built up by an intellect formed from other people’s knowledge and opinions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1131	On a pilgrimage we strive to see God around us, to intuit Him in the events that happen.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Hinduism|1133	All seekers hope for an occasional glimpse of Śiva during their yearly pilgrimage at some venerable temple. If they develop that little glimpse, it will grow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1134	Many have asked me whether everyone should worship Śiva both inside and out. Yes, that is the ideal according to our Śaiva Siddhānta philosophy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Hinduism,Siva,Worship|1136	God Śiva is within each and every soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1138	The nature of the worshiper develops through sādhana and tapas, performed either in this life or in previous lives.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Sadhana|1139	 We must worship Śiva externally until compelled—as were the great ṛishis of yore—to sit down, to settle down, to turn within ourself, to stop talking, to stop thinking and thus to internalize our great energy of bhakti, devotion. This is how we evolve, how we progress along the path toward Śiva, diving deeper and deeper within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Worship,Meditation|1140	Everyone must worship Śiva externally prior to internalizing that worship fully and perfectly.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Meditation,Worship|1141	When problems come in the family or workplace and emotions arise, it is only natural to forget Śiva. It’s so much easier to be involved in twoness rather than oneness. It takes a lot of inner strength to remember Śiva all of the time, to keep the love for Śiva owing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Facing Life|1142	It takes a lot of inner strength to remember Śiva all of the time, to keep the love for Śiva owing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1143	If you want to remember God, then first learn to forget yourself a little.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1144	A family provides toys for the children to make them happy. Śiva provides karma and dharma to all of us to make us happy, to bring us closer to Him.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Karma|1145	Siva gave birth to all souls, our ṛishi-saints tell us; and we are evolving back into His image and likeness, they further explain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1146	The toys of experience help us in our evolution, keeping us entertained so that we can learn and grow and experience our karma, dharma and other basic cosmic laws.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1147	Just as the children can laugh joyously as they play with their toys, or break them and cry or throw them at one another, hitting and hurting each other, we too can avoid duty and dharma, make karma, hurt ourselves and others, or help ourselves and others as we play with our own evolution, strengthening ourselves, learning and growing wise.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1148	It is natural to forget about God, but there are many helpful ways that we can avoid distraction, that we can remember to keep seeing God Śiva everywhere. One of the practical ways to bring God Śiva into the midst of all this is to keep repeating His name. Do japa when you find yourself forgetting, when you just can’t see God at all, let alone everywhere. Repeat “Aum Namaḥ Śivāya.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Siva|1149	Do japa when you find yourself forgetting, when you just can’t see God at all, let alone everywhere. Repeat “Aum Namaḥ Śivāya.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Facing Life|1150	When life becomes difficult or strained, say to yourself “Śiva Śiva” or “Aum Śivāya” or “Namaḥ Śivāya.” Mentally put it all at His feet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Siva|1151	Smile when you feel unhappy with someone and say to yourself, “How nice to see you, Śiva, in this form.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Facing Life|1152	When life becomes difficult or strained, say to yourself “Śiva Śiva” or “Aum Śivāya” or “Namaḥ Śivāya.” Mentally put it all at His feet. See Him in everyone that you meet or confront, regardless of the circumstances. He is there as their life force, but you just need to quiet the mind to see.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Facing Life|1153	Nobody can think of Śiva in His formlessness. This, above all, has to be realized, and then the realizer has to realize that he has realized the Formless. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1154	The truth is that precious few will realize Paraśiva, though many can and will realize Satchidānanda, even in their later years or at the moment of death.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1155	The fullness of lives of experience experienced, the performance of prior goals perfected, would lead a soul to the burning desire to accomplish the ultimate goal.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1156	For each person on the planet, the immediate pattern is clear. Once it is fulfilled, the next step appears naturally.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1158	In the earlier stages, before sādhana is undertaken, the mind is agitated by current karmas and perhaps discouraged by its inability to know or to fulfill dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Sadhana,Karma,Facing Life|1159	“Certainly God could not reside within myself,” the unenlightened concludes. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1160	When the mind rests peacefully in the fulfillment of a life’s pattern, dharma, when it has sufficient maturity to control and to dispatch past and current karmas through meditation, prayer and penance, then indeed God is seen as a helping hand within, but most potently felt within His temple.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom,Siva|1161	The helping hand within becomes more than an aid to the troubled mind; it becomes pure consciousness itself. Rather than seeking God outside, God is enjoyed as a vital, integral dimension of the person, the Life of life, the power and radiant energy of the universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1162	The calm within is greater than the outside disturbance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Meditation|1164	To know philosophy without experience is like going on a vacation to a distant and wonderful place by simply reading a book about the destination, hearing what others claim is to be enjoyed there. It is not true experience at all. The only spiritual experience is personal experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1165	The only spiritual experience is personal experience. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Wisdom|1166	How can we with our finite mind come to understand Infinity, come to understand God?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1167	Our scriptures tell us that God Himself is Śaṅkara, the author of all knowledge, creator of the intellect. He is the great architect of the universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1168	Then if God created the intellect, how can the intellect understand Him? Well, it is possible. It has been done. The intellect has to expand, and awareness has to transcend the rational mind and see directly from superconscious knowing. That is why we worship Śiva in His highest form, symbolized by the Śivaliṅga, the simple elliptical stone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,Worship|1169	It is good that you are trying to see Śiva everywhere. Keep trying. It will come. Who else can give your Self to you?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,The Self|1171	The ego is the last thing to go. It is the last bond to break.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1172	Once the bondage of personal ego is broken, it is seen that this mysterious God is all-pervading. He is what He has created.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1173	Śiva pervades His creation constantly as ever-present Love and Light of the mind of everyone, as Intelligence and Being; and yet God also has a form.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1174	We are fortunate to worship such a great God who pervades everything and yet transcends it, who is both form and beyond form, who is the Self within your very self at this very moment. So, all of you seekers of nondual Truth, you have a truly great path that offers God experience in form and beyond form.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,The Self|1175	Accept your karma as your own, as a healing medicine and not a poison.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Karma|1176	As you go through your self-created experiences in daily life and seed karmas awaken, as your actions come back through your emotions, even in this life, not in a future one, resolve each and every experience so that you do not react and create new cycles to be lived through.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Karma,Facing Life|1177	Whether it is happy karma, sad karma, miserable karma or ecstatic karma, it is your karma. But it is not you, not the real you. It is the experience that you go through in order to evolve, in order to grow and to learn and to attain, eventually, wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Karma,Facing Life|1178	All souls are evolving back to His holy feet, and there are many lessons to be learned along the way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Siva|1179	The lessons learned in the karma classroom are part of the process of evolution, the mechanism of evolution, the tool of evolution.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Karma|1180	That is the goal of life, to know Śiva, to love Śiva and to find union in Him, to dance with Śiva, live with Śiva and merge with Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1181	Śiva’s cosmic energy permeates everything and gives light and life to your mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1182	Śiva is everywhere and all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva|1183	See God Śiva everywhere and His life energy in all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Siva|1184	The Self: you can’t explain it. You can sense its existence through the refined state of your senses, but you cannot explain it. To know it, you have to experience it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self|1186	The mind is form ever creating form, preserving form, creating new forms and destroying old forms. That is the mind, the illusion, the great unreality, the part of you that in your thinking mind you dare to think is real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1187	Man’s destiny leads him back to himself. Man’s destiny leads him into the cognition of his own Being; leads him further into the realization of his True Being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Siva,The Self|1188	They say you must step onto the spiritual path to realize the Self. You only step on the spiritual path when you and you alone are ready, when what appears real to you loses its appearance of reality. Then and only then are you able to detach yourself enough to seek to find a new and more permanent reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self|1189	As the Self, your Effulgent Being, comes to life in you, joy and sorrow become a study to you. You do not have to think to tell yourself that each in its own place is unreal. You know from the innermost depths of your being that form itself is not real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self|1190	The subtlety of the joys that you experience as you come into your Effulgent Being cannot be described. They can only be projected to you if you are refined enough to pick up the subtlety of vibration. If you are in harmony enough, you can sense the great joy, the subtlety of the bliss that you will feel as you come closer and closer to your real Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self|1191	If you strive to find the Self by using your mind, you will strive and strive in vain, because the mind cannot give you Truth; a lie cannot give you the truth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self|1193	How strong you must be to find this Truth. You must become very, very strong. How do you become strong? Exercise. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self|1195	Preparing you for the realization of the Self is like tuning up a violin, tightening up each string so it harmonizes with every other string. The more sensitive you are to tone, the better you can tune a violin, and the better the violin is tuned, the better the music. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	The Self,Sadhana|1196	The stronger you are in your nature, the more you can bring through your real nature; the more you can enjoy the bliss of your true being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Sadhana,Meditation|1197	It is well worth denying yourself many, many things for—to curb your nature. It is well worth struggling with your mind, to bring your mind under the dominion of your will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Sadhana,Meditation|1198	Those of you who have experienced contemplation know the depth from which I am speaking.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1200	It is well worth struggling with your mind, to bring your mind under the dominion of your will. ¶ Out of it you have gained a great knowing, a knowing that you could refer back to, a knowing that will bear the fruit of wisdom if you relate future life experiences to that knowing, a knowing greater than you could acquire at any university	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	|1202	Every positive effort that you make is not in vain. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Meditation,Sadhana|1203	Every single brick added to a temple made of brick brings that temple closer to completion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life,Sadhana,Meditation|1204	Know that you are the Spirit permeating through mind, which is all form; body, which you inhabit; and emotions, which you either control or are controlled by.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Facing Life|1205	Each time you try you are one step closer to your true Effulgent Being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/23	Meditation,Sadhana|1206	Religion teaches us how to become better people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life,Worship|1209	Through following the yamas and niyamas, we cultivate our refined, spiritual being while keeping the instinctive nature in check.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1211	Yama means “reining in” or “control.” The yamas include such injunctions as noninjury (ahiṁsā), nonstealing (asteya) and moderation in eating (mitāhāra), which harness the base, instinctive nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Hinduism,Wisdom|1212	Character is the foundation for spiritual unfoldment	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1213	Niyama, literally “unleashing,” indicates the expression of refined, soul qualities through such disciplines as charity (dāna), contentment (santosha) and incantation (japa). 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Hinduism|1214	The fact is, the higher we go, the lower we can fall.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1216	The platform of character must be built within our lifestyle to maintain the total contentment needed to persevere on the path. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1219	Sexual purity brings faith in God, Gods and guru. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Gods,Guru|1220	Truthfulness brings on the state of santosha, contentment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1221	Kshamā, patience, is the foundation for Īśvarapūjana, worship	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1222	Dayā, compassion, definitely brings mati, cognition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1223	Ārjava, honesty—renouncing deception and all wrongdoing—is the foundation for vrata, taking sacred vows and faithfully fulfilling them. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1224	Mitāhāra, moderate appetite, is where yoga begins, and vegetarianism is essential before the practice of japa, recitation of holy mantras, can reap its true benefit in one’s life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1225	Śaucha, purity in body, mind and speech, is the foundation and the protection for all austerities.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1226	The yamas and niyamas are the essential foundation for all spiritual progress.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1227	In the Hindu tradition, it is primarily the mother’s job to build character within the children, and thereby to continually improve society. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Hinduism|1229	So, as we restrain the lower, instinctive qualities through upholding the yamas, the soul moves forward to its destination in the state of santosha.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1230	Santosha, peace, is the eternal satisfaction of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1231	At the deepest level, the soul is always in the state of santosha.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1233	It is important to realize that the yamas, restraints, are not out of the reach of the lowliest among us. No matter where we are in the scale of life, we all started from the beginning, at the bottom, didn’t we? This is our philosophy. This is our religion. This is the evolution of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1234	No matter where we are in the scale of life, we all started from the beginning,	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Wisdom|1235	To practice ahiṁsā, one has to practice santosha, contentment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1237	Bear your karma cheerfully.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Wisdom|1238	Live within your situation contentedly.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Wisdom|1239	Hiṁsā, or injury, and the desire to harm, comes from discontent. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1240	In the final analysis we are not separate from the world and its manifest forms, nor from the Divine which shines forth in all things, all beings, all peoples.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1241	We all know that Hindus, who are one-sixth of the human race today, believe in the existence of God everywhere, as an all-pervasive, self-effulgent energy and consciousness. This basic belief creates the attitude of sublime tolerance and acceptance toward others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Hinduism|1242	Even tolerance is insufficient to describe the compassion and reverence the Hindu holds for the intrinsic sacredness within all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Hinduism|1243	When the fundamentalists of any religion teach an unrelenting duality based on good and evil, man and nature or God and Devil, this creates friends and enemies.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1244	The Hindu looks at nothing as intrinsically evil. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Hinduism|1245	Life is a pilgrimage to mukti, or liberation from rebirth, which once attained is the end to reincarnation in a physical body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	|1246	Ahiṁsā is the first and foremost virtue, presiding over truthfulness, nonstealing, sexual purity, patience, steadfastness, compassion, honesty and moderate appetite.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1248	The sannyāsin must be totally truthful to himself, to his guru, to the Gods and to Lord Śiva, who resides within him every minute of every hour of every day.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Sadhana|1249	Because of the brahmachārī’s or sannyāsin’s spiritual power, he really has more ability to hurt someone than he or that person may know, and therefore his observance of noninjury is even more vital. Yes, this is true. A brahmachārī or sannyāsin who does not live the highest level of ahiṁsā is not a brahmachārī.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Sadhana|1250	Words are expressions of thoughts, thoughts created from prāṇa.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1251	Words coupled with thoughts backed up by the transmuted prāṇas, or the accumulated bank account of energies held back within the brahmachārī and the sannyāsin, become powerful thoughts, and when expressed through words go deep into the mind, creating impressions, saṁskāras, that last a long time, maybe forever.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1252	When we hurt another, we scar the inside of ourself; we clone the image. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Karma|1254	Angry people should get married and should not practice brahmacharya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1256	Wisdom, which is the timely application of knowledge, guides truthfulness for the adult. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1257	To attain wisdom, the adult must be conversant with the soul nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1258	Satya is a restraint, and as one of the ten restraints it ranks in importance as number two. When we restrain our tendencies to deceive, to lie and break promises, our external life is uncomplicated, as is our subconscious mind. Honesty is the foundation of truth. It is ecologically, psychologically purifying.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1259	When we restrain our tendencies to deceive, to lie and break promises, our external life is uncomplicated, as is our subconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1260	Honesty is the foundation of truth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1261	The practice of truthfulness, satya, is in itself a healing and purifying sādhana.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life,Sadhana|1262	Confidences must be kept at all costs in the practice of satya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Sadhana|1263	When pure truthfulness would injure or cause harm, then the first yama, ahiṁsā, would come into effect.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1264	No one knows one’s faults better than oneself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1265	We do not want to expose others’ faults. Such confrontations could become argumentative and combative.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1266	No one knows one’s faults better than oneself. But fear and weakness often prevail, while motivation and a clear plan to correct the situation are absent. Therefore, to give a clear plan, a positive outlook, a new way of thinking, diverts the attention of the individual and allows internal healing to take place. This is wisdom. This is ahiṁsā, noninjury. This is satya, truthfulness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1267	The wise devotee is careful to never insult or humiliate others, even under the pretext of telling the truth, which is an excuse that people sometimes use to tell others what they don’t like about them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1268	Wise devotees realize that there is good and bad in everyone. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1269	The brahmachārī and the sannyāsin must be absolutely truthful with their satguru. They must be absolutely diplomatic, wise and always accentuate the good qualities within the sannyāsin and brahmachārī communities. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Guru|1270	The guru has the right to discuss, rebuke or discipline the uncomely qualities in raising up the brahmachārī and sannyāsin. Only he has this right, because it was given to him by the brahmachārīs and sannyāsins when they took him as their satguru. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Guru|1271	Brahmachārīs and sannyāsins cannot discipline one another, psychoanalyze and correct in the name of truthfulness, without violation of the number one yama—ahiṁsā, noninjury. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1273	It is the guru’s responsibility to mold the aspirant into a solid member of the monastic community, just as it is the mother’s and father’s duty to mold the youth to be a responsible, looked-up-to member of the family community. This is how society progresses.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Guru,Wisdom|1274	The practice, niyama, to strengthen one’s satya qualities is tapas, austerity—performing sādhana, penance, tapas and sacrifice.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Sadhana|1275	If you find you have not been truthful, if you have betrayed promises, then put yourself under the tapas sādhana. Perform a lengthy penance. Atone, repent, perform austerities. You will soon find that being truthful is much easier than what tapas and austerities will make you go through if you fail to restrain yourself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Sadhana|1276	Truthfulness is the fullness of truth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1277	Truth itself is fullness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/27	Wisdom|1278	Covetousness could well be defined as owning something mentally and emotionally but not actually owning it physically. This is not good. It puts a hidden psychological strain on all parties concerned and brings up the lower emotions from the tala chakras. It must be avoided at all cost.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1279	Coveting is desiring things that are not your own. Coveting leads to jealousy, and it leads to stealing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1280	The first impulse toward stealing is coveting, wanting.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1281	Coveting is mental stealing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1282	Running one’s affairs on other peoples’ money must be restrained. To control this is the sādhana of asteya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Sadhana|1283	To perfect asteya, we must practice dāna, charity, the third niyama; we must take the dāśama bhāga vrata, promising to tithe, pay dāśamāṁśa, to our favorite religious organization and, on top of that, give creatively, without thought of reward.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Sadhana|1284	Stealing is selfishness. Giving is unselfishness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1285	It is important to realize that one cannot simply obey the yamas without actively practicing the niyamas. To restrain one’s current tendencies successfully, each must be replaced by a positive observance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1286	It is also important to remember that doing what should not be done—and not doing what should be done—does have its consequences.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1288	Each Hindu guru has his own ways of mitigating the negative karmas that result as a consequence of not living up to the high ideals of these the Yamas and Niyamas. But the world is also a guru, in a sense, and its devotees learn by their own mistakes, often repeating the same lessons many, many times. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Guru,Karma|1289	There are several kinds of debt that are disallowed by the yama of asteya. One is spending beyond your means and accumulating bills you can’t pay.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1290	Many people today are addicted to abusing credit. It’s like being addicted to the drug opium. People addicted to O.P.M.—other people’s money—compulsively spend beyond their means.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1291	Another kind of debt is contracting resources beyond your ability to pay back the loan.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1292	One should never risk more than one can afford to lose.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1293	Śiva’s devotees are forbidden to indulge in gambling or games of chance with payment or risk, even through others or for employment. Gambling erodes society, assuring the loss of many for the gain of a few.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1294	Compulsive gambling and reckless, unfounded speculation are like stealing from your own family, risking the family wealth. More than that, it is stealing from yourself, because the remorse felt when an inevitable loss comes could cause a loss of faith in your abilities and your judgment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1295	Entering into debt is a modern convenience and a modern temptation. But this convenience must be honored within the time allotted.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1296	The yamas and niyamas are not just a personal matter but also a national, communal and global matter. Yes, this takes asteya and all the restraints and observances to another dimension.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1297	Brahmacharya, sexual purity, is a very important restraint among the ancient Śaivite ethical principles known as yamas and niyamas, because it sets the pattern for one’s entire life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Hinduism|1298	Those who practice brahmacharya before marriage and apply its principles throughout married life are free from encumbrances—mentally, emotionally and physically. They get a good start on life, have long-lasting, mature family relationships, and their children are emotionally sound, mentally firm and physically strong.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1299	Brahmacharya for the monastic means complete sexual abstinence and is, of course, an understood requirement to maintain this position in life. This applies as well to any single individual who has taken the celibacy vow, known as brahmacharya vrata.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1300	Nowadays there are pseudo-sannyāsins who are married and call themselves swāmīs, but, if pressed, they might admit that they are simply yoga teachers dressed in orange robes, bearing the title “swāmī” to attract the attention of the uninformed public for commercial reasons.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1301	There is great power in the practice of brahmacharya, literally “Godly conduct.” Containing the sacred fluids within the body builds up a bank account through the years that makes the realization of God on the path to enlightenment a reality within the life of the individual who is single. When brahmacharya is broken through sexual intercourse, this power goes away. It just goes away. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1302	The observance of brahmacharya is perhaps the most essential aspect of a sound, spiritual culture. This is why In Śaivism, boys and girls are taught the importance of remaining celibate until they are married. This creates healthy individuals, physically, emotionally and spiritually, generation after generation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Hinduism|1303	Be very careful to mix only with good company—those who think and speak in a cultured way—so that the mind and emotions are not led astray and vital energies needed for study used up.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1304	Get plenty of physical exercise. This is very important, because exercise sublimates your instinctive drives and directs excess energy and the flow of blood into all parts of the body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1305	Faithfulness in marriage means fidelity and much more. It includes mental faithfulness, non-flirtatiousness and modesty toward the opposite sex.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1306	Metaphysically, in the perfect family relationship, man and wife are, in a sense, creating a one nervous system for their joint spiritual progress, and all of their nāḍīs are growing together over the years. If they break that faithfulness, they break the psychic, soul connections that are developing for their personal inner achievements.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1307	In this day and age, when promiscuity is a way of life, there is great strength in married couples’ understanding and applying the principles of sexual purity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1308	Married persons uphold sexual purity by observing the eightfold celibacy toward everyone but their spouse. These are ideals for serious, spiritual people. For those who have nothing to do with spirituality, these laws are meaningless	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1309	For sexual purity, individuals must believe firmly in the path to enlightenment. They must have faith in higher powers than themselves. Without this, sexual purity is nearly impossible. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1310	One of the fastest ways to destroy the stability of families and societies is through promiscuity, mental and\/or physical, and the best way to maintain stability is through self-control.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1311	Stability for human society is based on morality, and morality is based on harnessing and controlling sexuality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1312	The principles of brahmacharya should be learned well before puberty, so that the sexual feelings the young person then begins to experience are free of mental fantasies and emotional involvement.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1313	Impatience is a sign of desirousness to fulfill unfulfilled desires, having no time for any interruptions or delays from anything that seems irrelevant to what one really wants to accomplish.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1314	We must restrain our desires by regulating our life with daily worship and meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation,Worship|1315	Everything has its timing and its regularity in life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1316	Focusing on living in the eternity of the moment overcomes impatience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1317	Patience is having the power of acceptance, accepting people, accepting events as they are happening.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1318	One of the great spiritual powers that people can have is to accept things as they are. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1319	Acceptance is developed in a person by understanding the law of karma and in seeing God Śiva and His work everywhere, accepting the perfection of the timing of the creation, preservation and absorption of the entire universe. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom|1321	Many people are masters of the faÇade of being patient with others but take their frustrations out on themselves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1322	Most people today are intolerant with one another and impatient with their circumstances. This breeds an irreverent attitude. Nothing is sacred to them, nothing holy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1323	Through daily exercising anger, malice and the other lower emotions,  most people, without knowing, invoke the demonic forces of the Narakaloka. Then they must suffer the backlash: have nightmares, confusions, separations and even perform heinous acts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1324	Let all people of the world restrain themselves and be patient through the practice of daily worship and meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Worship,Meditation|1325	The next time you find yourself becoming impatient, just stop for a moment and remember that you are on the upward path, now facing a rare opportunity to take one more step upward by overcoming these feelings, putting all that you have previously learned into practice. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom|1326	One does not progress on the spiritual path by words, ideas or unused knowledge. Memorized precepts, ślokas, all the shoulds and should-nots, are good, but unless used they will not propel you one inch further than you already are.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom|1327	When a test comes, prevail.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom|1328	To be steadfast, you have to use your willpower.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom|1329	Willpower is developed easily in a person who has an adequate memory and good reasoning faculties.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	|1330	To be steadfast as we go through life, we must have a purpose, a plan, persistence and push. Then nothing is impossible within the circumference of our prārabdha karmas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1331	Observe those who are steadfast. You will learn from them. Observe those who are not, and they, too, will teach you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1332	To be indecisive and changeable is not how we should be on the path to enlightenment, nor to be successful in any other pursuit.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1333	Daily sādhana, preferably under a guru’s guidance, is suggested here to develop a spiritual will and intellect.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Sadhana|1334	Courageous and fearless people who are just and honest prevail over all karmas—benevolent, terrible and confused.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1335	To endure hardship and rise above it in consciousness is to overcome that karma forever. To resent hardship, to fight it, is to have it return later at a most inconvenient time	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Karma|1336	A person who is changeable is fickle and unsure of himself, changing without purpose or reason.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life|1337	Dhṛiti, steadfastness, describes the mind that is willing to change for mature reasons based on new information but holds steady to its determinations through thick and thin in the absence of such good reasons. Its decisions are based on wise discrimination. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1338	A person who is patient and truthful, who would not harm others by thought, word or deed and who is  compassionate and honest has the strong nature of one who is firm in dhṛiti, steadfastness. He is the prevailer over obstacles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom|1339	One firm in dhṛiti can be leaned upon by others, depended upon. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Facing Life|1340	The spiritual path is a long, enduring process. It does not reach fruition in a year or two years.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1341	The thirty-six elements dance. Sadāśiva dances. Consciousness dances. Śiva-Śakti dances. The animate and inanimate dance. All these and the Vedas dance when the Supreme dances His dance of bliss.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/7	Siva|1342	Sometimes it is kind to be cruel, and at other times it is cruel to be kind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1343	Compassion tempers all decisions, gives clemency, absolution, forgiveness as a boon even for the most heinous misdeeds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1344	Dayā comes from deep sādhana, prolonged santosha, contentment, scriptural study and listening to the wise. It is the outgrowth of the unfolded soul, the maturing of higher consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1345	A compassionate person transcends even forgiveness by caring for the suffering of the person he has forgiven. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1346	The compassionate person is like a God. He is the boon-giver. Boons, which are gifts from the Gods, come unexpectedly, unasked-for. And so it is with the grace of a compassionate person.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1347	Compassion is defined as conquering callous, cruel and insensitive feelings toward all beings. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1348	When we find callous, cruel and insensitive people in our midst, we should not take them into our inner circles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1349	Compassion is the outgrowth of being forgiving. It is the outgrowth of truthfulness, and of noninjury.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1351	One can’t command compassion. Before compassion comes love. Compassion is the outgrowth of love. Love is the outgrowth of understanding. Understanding is the outgrowth of reason. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1352	Compassion is the outgrowth of love. Love is the outgrowth of understanding. Understanding is the outgrowth of reason. One must have sufficient memory to remember the various points of reason and enough willpower to follow them through to be able to psychically look into the core of existence to gain the reverence for all life, all living organisms, animate or inanimate. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1353	Compassion is a very advanced spiritual quality. When you see it exhibited in someone, you know he is very advanced spiritually—probably an old soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1354	Compassion and bliss are a one big package.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1356	What is the difference between ahiṁsā and dayā, compassion, one might ask? There is a distinct difference. Not harming others by thought, word or deed is a cardinal law of Hinduism and cannot be avoided, discarded, ignored or replaced by the more subtle concept of compassion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1357	Ahiṁsā, among the yamas and niyamas, could be considered the only explicit commandment Hinduism gives.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Hinduism,Wisdom|1358	Compassion comes from the heart, comes spontaneously. It is a total flow of spiritual, material, intellectual giving, coming unbidden to the receiver.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1359	Compassion by no means is foolishness or pretense. It is an overflowing of soulfulness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1360	The person experiencing compassion is often turned around emotionally and mentally as he is giving this clemency, this boon of absolution, despite his own instinctive or intellectual inclinations. This is a spiritual outpouring through a person. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	|1361	You can mitigate and change that karma by being extra-special nice to those who abused you, hurt you or caused you to have bad thoughts and feelings against them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1362	The most important rule of honesty is to be honest to oneself	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1364	To be honest with oneself brings peace of mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1365	Those who are frustrated, discontent, are now and have been dishonest with themselves. They blame others for their own faults and predicaments. They are always looking for a scapegoat, someone to blame something on.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	|1366	To deceive oneself is truly ignorance in its truest form.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1367	Honesty begins within one’s own heart and soul and works its way out from there into dealing with other people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1368	To be deceptive and not straightforward is thieving time from those you are deceiving. They are giving you their heart and mind, and you are twisting their thoughts to your own selfish ends, endeavoring to play them out, to take what they have, in favors or in kind, for your personal gain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom|1370	Deception is the cruelest of acts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1371	A deceptive person is an insidious disease to society.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1372	To show remorse, be modest and show shame for misdeeds is the way to win back the faith, though maybe not the total trust, and a smidgen of respect from those who have discovered and exposed your deception.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1373	Bribery corrupts the giver, the taker and the nation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1374	To participate in bribery is to go into a deceptive, illegal partnership between the briber and the bribed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1375	There is no law in any legal code of any government that says bribery is acceptable. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1376	Sādhakas, yogīs and swāmīs upholding their vows are the prism of honesty. The rays of their auras radiate out through all areas of life. They are the protectors, the stabilizers, the uplifters, the consolers, the sympathizers.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom|1377	No satguru would accept a monastic candidate who persists in patterns of deception, wrongdoing and outright lies and who shows no shame for misdeeds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Guru|1378	Human relations, especially the guru-disciple relationship, derive their strength from trust, which each shares and expresses. The breaking of the yama of ārjava is the severing of that trust, which thereby provokes the destruction or demise of the relationship.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1379	Higher-consciousness governments are able to maintain their economy and feed their people. Lower-consciousness governments are not.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1380	Even large, successful corporate monopolies deem honesty as the first necessary qualification for an employee.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1381	It is easier to remember the truth than remember lies—white lies, gray lies or black lies.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1382	It is easier to be straightforward than conniving and deceptive, dishonest.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1383	A simple life is an honest life. An honest life is a simple life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1384	Don’t owe people favors, and don’t allow people to owe you favors	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1385	Don’t promise what you can’t deliver, and do deliver what you promise. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1386	Gorging oneself has always been a form of decadence in every culture and is considered unacceptable behavior.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1387	Decadence, which is a dance of decay, has been the downfall of many governments, empires, kingdoms and principalities.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1388	The tenth yama is mitāhāra, moderate appetite.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1389	The body knows no wisdom as to shoulds and should-nots. It would eat and drink itself to death if it had its way	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1391	According to āyurveda, not eating too much is the greatest thing you can do for health if you want a long life, ease in meditation and a balanced, happy mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom|1392	There is almost nothing, apart from smoking and drugs, that hurts the body more than excessive eating	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1393	If you are regularly eating rich, processed, dead foods, then you are not following mitāhāra, and you will have rich, finely processed, dead, dredged-up-from-the-past karmic experiences that will ruin your marriage, wreak havoc on your children and send you early to the funeral pyre.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1394	Our ṛishis may have anticipated that the economy of mitāhāra makes it a global discipline—eating frugally, not squandering your wealth to overindulge yourself, not using the wealth of a nation to pamper the nation’s most prosperous, not using the resources of the Earth to satiate excessive appetites.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom|1395	If all are following mitāhāra, we will be able to better feed everyone on the planet; fewer will be hungry. We won’t have such extreme inequalities of excessive diet and inadequate diet, the incongruity of gluttony and malnutrition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1396	The Hindu view is that we are part of ecology, an intricate part of the planet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1397	By following mitāhāra you can be healthier, and you can be wealthier.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1398	Overeating repels one from spiritual sādhana, because the body becomes slothful and lazy, having to digest so much food and run it through its system.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Sadhana|1399	Eating is meant to nourish the body with vitamins and minerals to keep it functioning. It is not meant for mere personal, sensual pleasure. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1400	A slothful person naturally does not have the inclination to advance himself through education and meditation, and is unable to do anything but a simple, routine job.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1402	A vegetarian diet helps to open the inner man to the outer person and brings forth higher consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1403	Eating meat, fish, fowl and eggs opens the doors to lower consciousness. It’s as simple as that. A vegetarian diet creates the right chemistry for spiritual life. Other diets create a different chemistry, which affects your endocrine glands and your entire system all day long.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1404	Food is chemistry, and chemistry affects consciousness; and if our goal is higher consciousness, we have to provide the chemistry that evokes it. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1406	 If you do overindulge, then compensate by fasting occasionally and performing physical disciplines.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1407	The ṛishis of yore taught us to restrain desire. They used the words restrain and moderate rather than suppress or eliminate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1408	We must remember that to restrain and moderate desire allows the energy which is restrained and moderated to enliven higher chakras, giving rise to creativity and intuition that will actually better mankind, one’s own household and the surrounding community. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1409	Study your body and your diet and find out what works for you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1410	Vegetarianism has for thousands of years been a principle of health and environmental ethics throughout India.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism|1411	A subtle sense of guilt persists among Hindus who eat meat, and there exists an ongoing controversy on this issue. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism|1412	The Sanskrit for vegetarianism is śākāhāra, and one following a vegetarian diet is a śākāhārī. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1413	For good health, even certain vegetarian foods are minimized: frozen and canned foods, highly processed foods, such as white rice, white sugar and white flour; and “junk” foods and beverages—those with abundant chemical additives, such as artificial sweeteners, colorings, flavorings and preservatives. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1414	Many become vegetarian purely to uphold dharma, as the first duty to God and God’s creation as defined by Vedic scripture.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism|1415	Some abjure meat-eating because of the karmic consequences, knowing that by involving oneself, even indirectly, in the cycle of inflicting injury, pain and death by eating other creatures, one must in the future experience in equal measure the suffering caused.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1417	Medical studies prove that a vegetarian diet is easier to digest, provides a wider range of nutrients and imposes fewer burdens and impurities on the body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1418	No single decision that we can make as individuals or as a race can have such a dramatic effect on the improvement of our planetary ecology as the decision to not eat meat. Many conscious of the need to save the planet for future generations have made this decision for this reason and this reason alone. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|1419	Purity is the natural heritage of men and women disciplined in mind and body, who think before they speak, speaking only that which is true, kind, helpful and necessary.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1420	People whose thoughts are pure—and this means being in line with the yamas and niyamas—and whose bodies are free from incompatible alien obstructions, are naturally happy, content and ready to perform japa.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1421	Japa yoga lifts the spiritual energies and annihilates pride and arrogance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1423	To be pure in mind means to have a bright, luminous aura filled with the pastel hues of the primary and secondary colors under every circumstance and life situation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1424	A clean personal environment, wearing clean clothes, bathing often, keeping the room spotless where you meditate, breathing clean air, letting fresh air pass through your house, is all very important in the fulfillment of purity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1425	Śaucha also includes partaking of clean food, which ideally is freshly picked food, cooked within minutes of the picking.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1427	Clean clothing is very important. One feels invigorated and happy wearing clean clothing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1428	Cleaning the house is an act of purifying one’s immediate environment. Each piece of furniture, as well as the doorways and the walls, catches and holds the emanations of the human aura of each individual in the home, as well as each of its visitors. This residue must be wiped away through dusting and cleaning.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1430	Each piece of furniture, as well as the doorways and the walls, catches and holds the emanations of the human aura of each individual in the home, as well as each of its visitors.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1431	Regular attentiveness keeps each room sparkling clean and actinic. Unless this is done, the rooms of the home become overpowering to the consciousness of the individuals who live within them as their auras pick up the old accumulated feelings of days gone by.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1432	Small wonder that a dirty room can depress you, and one freshly cleaned can invigorate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1433	If a home receives all of the daily attentions of cleaning it sparkly bright, both astrally and physically, it becomes a welcoming place and not an empty shell. The devas can live within a home that is clean and well regulated	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1435	It is very important that the saṁskāras are performed properly within a śaucha abode, particularly the antyeshṭi, or funeral, ceremonies so as to restore purity in the home after a death.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1436	Birth and death require the family to observe a moratorium of at least thirty-one days during which they do not enter the temple or the shrine room. Such obligatory ritual customs are important to follow for those wishing to restrain their desires and perfect śaucha in body, mind and speech, keeping good company, keeping the mind pure and avoiding impure thoughts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1437	Purity and impurity can be discerned in the human aura.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1438	We see purity in the brilliancy of the aura of one who is restraining and disciplining the lower instinctive nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1439	Impure people have black shading in the colors of their aura as they go through their moods and emotions. Black in the aura is from the lower worlds, the worlds of darkness, of the tala chakras below the mūlādhāra. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1440	Black in the aura is from the lower worlds, the worlds of darkness, of the tala chakras below the mūlādhāra. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1442	It is important for the Devaloka people to ferret out who is good company and who is not	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1443	Asuric people, bound in anger, greed, jealousy, contempt, covetousness and lust, can make and sustain a difference within the devonic people, bringing them down into their world, torturing and tormenting them with their callous, cruel and insensitive feelings.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1444	To sustain śaucha, it is important to surround oneself with good, devonic company, to have the discrimination to know one type of person from another.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1446	Let’s not be foolish. Let’s discriminate between higher consciousness and lower consciousness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1447	Changing to a purer life can be so simple. You don’t have to give up anything. Just learn to like things that are better. That is the spirit of purity. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1448	From tamasic eating we go to rajasic eating, and because sattvic food tastes better and makes us feel better, we also leave much of the rajasic food behind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1449	Let’s go forward with the spirit of moving onward.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1450	Are not all persons on this planet driven by desire? Yes, indeed. Then let’s redirect desire and let our desires perfect us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1451	Be mature about it when you give something up.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1453	The spiritually immature person will make a big issue of giving anything up and want everyone to know about it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1454	Remorse: being modest and showing shame for misdeeds	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1456	Remorse could be the most misunderstood and difficult to practice of all of the niyamas, because we don’t have very many role models today for modesty or remorse.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1460	Some people teach us what to do, and other people teach us what not to do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom|1461	Sometimes we can learn quite a lot by seeing the opposite of what we want to learn.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1462	People, in their heart of hearts, do admire the modest person, the truthful person, the patient person, the steadfast person, the compassionate person who shows contentment and the fullness of well-being on his face and in his behavioral patterns.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1463	One of the most acceptable ways to practice hrī, even in today’s society, is to say in a heartfelt way, “I’m sorry.” Everyone will accept this. Even the most despicable, prideful, arrogant, self-centered person will melt just a little under the two magic words “I’m sorry.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1464	Even the most despicable, prideful, arrogant, self-centered person will melt just a little under the two magic words “I’m sorry.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1465	It takes as much time for a hardened heart to soften as it does for a piece of ice to melt in a refrigerator.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1467	There is another way to show remorse for misdeeds. That is by performing seva, religious service, for persons you have wronged. Give them gifts, cook them food.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1469	Often people think that showing shame and modesty and remorse for misdeeds is simply hanging your head. Well, really, anyone can do this, but it’s not genuine if the head is not pulled down by the tightening of the strings of the heart, if shame is not felt so deeply that one cannot look another in the eye. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1470	There is an analogy in the Śaivite tradition that compares the unfolding soul to wheat. When young and growing, the stalks of wheat stand tall and proud, but when mature their heads bend low under the weight of the grains they yield.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1471	Man is self-assertive, arrogant and vain only in the early stages of his spiritual growth. As he matures and yields the harvest of divine knowledge, he too bends his head.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1472	Body language has to truly be the language of the body. It’s a dead giveaway. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1474	To cry, expressing remorse—the crying should not be forced. Many people can cry on cue.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1476	Hrī is regret that one has done things against the dharma, or against conscience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1477	There are three kinds of conscience—one built on right knowledge, one built on semi-right knowledge and one built on wrong knowledge. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1478	Those who have been raised with the idea that an injustice should be settled by giving back another injustice might actually feel a little guilty when they fail to do this. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1479	We cannot confuse guilt and its messages with the message that comes from the soul. Guilt is the message of the instinctive mind, the chakras below the mūlādhāra.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1480	Many people who live in the lower worlds of darkness feel guilty and satisfy that guilt through retaliation. This is the eye-for-an-eye, tooth-for-a-tooth approach. This is not right conscience; it is not the soul speaking. This is not higher consciousness, and it is certainly not the inner being of light looking out of the windows of the chakras above the mūlādhāra.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1481	True conscience is of the soul, an impulse rushing through a mind that has been impregnated with right knowledge.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1482	When the true knowledge of karma is understood, reincarnation, saṁsāra and Vedic dharma, then true remorse is felt, which is a corrective mechanism of the soul. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism|1484	The soul’s response to wrong action comes of its own force, unbidden, when the person is a free soul, not bound by many materialistic duties.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1486	Having hurt another through wrongdoing, one has to pay back in proportion to the injury, not a rupee less and not a rupee more.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1488	Just as a responsible doctor or nurse must bring the healing to culmination, so the wrongdoer must deal with his wrongdoing, his crime against dharma, his crime against right knowledge.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1489	There are no magic formulas. Each one must find his own way to heal himself and others until the troublesome situation disappears from his own memory.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1490	Each one must find his own way to heal himself and others until the troublesome situation disappears from his own memory. This is why the practice called vāsanā daha tantra, writing down memories and burning them in a fire to release the emotion from the deep subconscious, has proven to be a solution uncomparable to any other.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1491	True forgiveness is the greatest eraser, the greatest harmonizer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1492	A materialist who loses face smiles and simply puts on another mask and continues as if nothing had ever happened. The saying goes, “Change your image and get on with life.” No shame, repentance or reconciliation is shown. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom|1493	The Hindu monastic has special disciplines in regard to remorse. If he doesn’t, he is an impostor.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism|1495	A monastery is no place to settle down and live. It is a place to be on one’s toes and advance. One must always live as if on the eve of one’s departure.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism|1496	Genuine modesty and unpretentiousness are not what actors on the stage would portray, they are qualities that one cannot act out, qualities of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom|1497	Stress in itself is a byproduct of not being secure in what one is doing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life|1501	Simply do not harm others by thought, word or deed. As a practitioner of ahiṁsā, noninjury, you can sleep contentedly at night and experience santosha then and through the day.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1502	The dharmic way is to look within and bring out the latent contentment that is already there by doing nothing to inhibit its natural expression, as santosha, the mood of the soul, permeates out through every cell of the physical body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism|1503	Life is meant to be lived joyously.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Hinduism|1504	There is in much of the world the belief that life is a burden, a feeling of penitence, that it is good to suffer, good for the soul. In fact, spiritual life is not that way at all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism|1505	The Śaivite Hindu perspective is that contentment is a reflection of centeredness, and discontentment is a reflection of externalized consciousness and ramified desire.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism|1506	Maintaining joy and serenity in life means being content with your surroundings, be they meager or lavish.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1507	Be content with your money, be it a small amount or a large amount.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1508	Basically, contentment, santosha, is freedom from desire gained by redirecting the forces of desire and making a beautiful life within what one already has in life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1509	The rich seeking more riches are not content. The famous seeking more fame are not content. The learned seeking more knowledge are not content.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1510	Contentment is working within your means with what is available to you, living within your income, being grateful for what you have, and not unhappy over what you lack. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1511	True santosha is seeing all-pervasiveness of the one divine power everywhere. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1512	Contentment is there, inside you, and needs to be brought out. It is a spiritual power. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1513	Santosha is being peaceful in any situation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1514	Santosha is the goal; dharma, good conduct, remains the director of how you should act and respond to fulfill your karma. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1515	Proceed with confidence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1516	The practice to attain santosha is to fulfill the yamas. Proceed with confidence; failure is an impossibility.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1517	The home is a sanctuary of the entire family. It should have an even higher standard of propriety than the office, the factory or the corporate workplace. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1519	It’s amazing how quickly people shape up their behavior when they sign a contract, when they get a job in a corporate office. They read the manual, they obey it and they are nice to everyone. This is the way it should be within the home. The home should be maintained at a higher standard than the corporate office.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1520	The wonderful thing about Hinduism is that we don’t let off steam at home; we let our emotions pour out within the Hindu temple. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life,Worship|1521	The Hindu temple is the place where we can relate to the Gods and the Goddesses and express ourselves within ourselves. It’s just between ourselves and the Deity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life,Worship|1522	The Hindu temple allows the individual to let off steam, but it is a controlled situation, controlled by the pūjās, the ceremony, the priesthood.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life,Worship|1524	It is making a lot of really bad karma that will come back in its stronger reaction later on in life for someone, the husband or wife or teenager, to upset the vibration of the home because of stress at school or in the workplace.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1525	It is counterproductive to work all day in a nice office, control the emotions and be productive, and then go home and upset the vibration within the home.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1526	Build the vibration of the home even stronger than the vibration of the workplace, so that there is something inviting to come home to.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1527	The Sanātana Dharma and Śaiva Samayam must be alive in the home, must be alive in the office, must be alive in the temple, for us to have a full life. Where, then, do we vent our emotions, where do we let off steam, if not in our own home? The answer is, within the temple.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life,Worship|1528	Giving freely of one’s goods in fulfilling needs, making someone happy or putting a smile on his face, mitigates selfishness, greed, avarice and hoarding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1529	Giving after the tax deductions are received and with no material benefits or rewards of any kind other than the fulfillment of giving is considered by the wise to be a true expression of dāna.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1530	Giving a gift begrudgingly in return for another gift is, of course, mere barter.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1532	When guests come, they must be given hospitality, at least a mat to sit on and a glass of water to drink. These are obligatory gifts. You must never leave your guest standing, and you must never leave your guest thirsty. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1533	Even if you think you are giving creatively, generously, looking for no rewards, but you are giving for a purpose, that karma will still pay you back with full interest and dividends. This is a positive use of the law of karma. It pays higher interest than any bank. This is not a selfish form of giving. It is the giving of the wise, because you know the law of karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|1534	The wheels of karma grind slowly but exceedingly well the grains of actions, be they in thought, emotion or those of a physical nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Karma|1535	The practice of dāna is an investment in a better life, an investment that pays great dividends.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom,Karma|1536	We are not limited by our poverty or wealth in practicing giving. No matter how poor you are, you can still practice it. You can give according to your means, your inspiration, your ability.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1537	Gifts within your means and from your heart are the proper gifts. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1539	Wives should be allowed by their husbands to perform giving outside the home, too.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1540	The divine law is that the wife’s śakti power, once released, makes her husband magnetic and successful in his worldly affairs, and their wealth accumulates. He knows from tradition that to release this śakti he must always fulfill all of the needs of his beloved wife and give her generously everything she wants. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1541	Arising before the Sun comes up, greeting and giving namaskāra to the Sun is a part of Śaivite culture.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1542	By giving to the satguru, you give him the satisfaction of giving to another, for he has no needs except the need to practice dāna.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life,Guru|1543	Great souls have always taught that, among all the forms of giving, imparting the spiritual teachings is the highest.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1544	You can give money or food and provide for the physical aspects of the being, but if you can find a way to give the dharma, the illumined wisdom of the traditions of the Sanātana Dharma, then you are giving to the spirit of the person, to the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1545	Many Hindus buy religious literature to give away, because jñāna dāna, giving wisdom, is the highest giving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Hinduism,Wisdom|1546	Giving through education is a glorious fulfillment for the giver, as well as for the receiver.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Wisdom|1547	Giving is also a way of balancing karma, of expressing gratitude for blessings received.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1548	Children should be taught giving at a very young age. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1549	When one has reached an advanced stage on the spiritual path, in order to go further, the law requires giving back what one has been given.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1550	Hearing oneself speak the divine teachings and being uplifted and fulfilled by filling up and uplifting others allows the budding adept to go through the next portal. Those who have no desire to counsel others, teach or pass on what they have learned are still in the learning stages themselves, traumatically dealing with one or more of the restraints and practices. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1552	Wisdom is the timely application of knowledge.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Wisdom,Facing Life|1553	Those who are filled up with the divine truths, in whom when that fullness is pressed down, compacted, locked in, it still oozes out and runs over, are those who pass on the Sanātana Dharma. They are the catalysts not only of this adult generation, but the one before it still living, and of children and the generations yet to come.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Wisdom|1554	Faith is a substance, a collection of molecules, mind molecules, emotion molecules—and some are even physical—collected together, charged with the energies of the Divine and the anxieties of the undivine, made into an astral form of shape, color and sound. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism|1555	Because of faith, groups of people are drawn together, cling together, remain together, intermarry and give birth, raising their children together in the substance of faith that their collective group is subconsciously committed to uphold.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Facing Life|1557	Anyone can strengthen another’s faith through encouragement, personal example, good natured humoring, praise, flattery, adulation, or take it away by the opposite methods	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Facing Life|1558	Faith in philosophy, religion, is the most tenuous and delicate kind and, we must say, the most rewarding of all faiths, because once it is sustained in unbroken continuity, the pure soul of the individual begins to shine forth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Facing Life|1559	Faith has eyes. It has three eyes. The seer who is looking at the world from the perspective of monistic Śaiva Siddhānta and sees clearly the final conclusions for all mankind has faith in his perception, because what he sees and has seen becomes stronger in his mind as the years go by.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1560	The Hindu is admonished by the sapta ṛishis themselves to believe firmly in God, Gods, guru and the path to enlightenment, lest he stray from the path of dharma—for faith is a powerful force. It can be given; it can be taken away.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Worship,Gods,Guru,Siva,Wisdom|1561	Some people have faith only when things are going right and lose faith when things go wrong. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Facing Life|1563	Faith is the intellect of the soul at its various stages of unfoldment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1564	For the soul in darkness, irul, faith is primitive, illogical.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1565	Yoga brings the soul into its next experiential pattern. The soul comes to find that if he performs good and virtuous deeds, life always seems to take a positive turn. Whereas in negative, unvirtuous acts he slowly becomes lost in a foreboding abyss of confusion. Thus, in faith, he turns toward the good and holy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom,Facing Life|1566	The outer descent of grace is the appearance of a satguru. There is no question as to who he is, for he sheds the same clear, spiritual vibration as that unknown something the soul feels emanating from his deepest self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Guru|1567	The intellect in its capacity to contain truth is a very limited tool, while faith is a very broad, accommodating and embracing faculty.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1568	The intellect is a memory\/reason conglomerate from the lower nāḍī\/chakra complex. Its refined ability to juggle information around is uncanny in some instances.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	|1570	One of the aspects of faith is the acceptance of tradition rather than the questioning or doubting of traditions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1573	The Sanskrit word āstikya means “that which is,” or “that which exists.” Thus, for Hindus faith means believing in what is.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1574	Faith is the spiritual-intellectual mind, developed through many superconscious insights blended together through cognition, not through reason. The insights do not have to be remembered, because they are firmly impressed as saṁskāras within the inner mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1575	There is an old saying favored by practical, experiential intellectuals, “Seeing is believing.” A more profound adage is “Believing is seeing.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1576	One cannot erase through argument or coercion that which has been seen. The seer relates his seeing to the soul of the one who hears. This is sampradāya. This is guru-śishya transference. This is Truth. This is śuddha. This is the end of this upadeśa. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom,Guru,Humor|1577	Human life is either worship or warship, higher nature or lower nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Wisdom|1578	Faith, āstikya, creates the attitudes for the action of worship. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship|1579	Worship could be defined as communication on a very high level.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship|1580	Worship is the binding force that keeps the Hindu family together.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship,Facing Life,Wisdom|1582	Simple pūjās may be performed by anyone wishing to invoke grace from God, Mahādevas and devas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship,Gods,Siva|1583	Love and dedication and the outpouring from the highest chakras of spiritual energies of the lay devotee are often greater than any professional priest could summon within himself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship|1584	The Hindu home is considered to be nothing less than an extension of the nearby temple.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Worship|1585	In the Hindu religion, unlike the Western religions, there is no one who stands between man and God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Gods,Siva,Worship|1586	All Hindus have guardian devas who live on the astral plane and guide, guard and protect their lives.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Facing Life|1587	The great Mahādevas in the temple that the devotees frequent send their deva ambassadors into the homes to live with the devotees. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Gods,Worship,Facing Life|1588	All Hindus are taught from childhood that the guest is God, and they treat any guest royally who comes to visit. Hindus also treat God as God and devas as Gods when they come to live permanently in the home.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Siva,Gods,Worship,Facing Life|1590	All those who live in the lower nature are restricted from performing pūjā, because when and if they do pūjā, the invocation calls up the demons rather than calling down the devas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship,Wisdom,Facing Life|1592	Of course, God, Gods and the devas do not always remain in the shrine room. They wander freely throughout the house, listening to and observing the entire family, guests and friends. Since the family is living in God’s house, and God is not living in their house, the voice of God is easily heard as their conscience. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Siva,Gods,Worship,Facing Life|1594	It is often said that worship is not only a performance at a certain time of day in a certain place, but a state of being in which every act, morning to night, is done in Śiva consciousness, in which life becomes an offering to God. Then we can begin to see Śiva in everyone we meet. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship,Siva,Facing Life|1596	If you are worshiping properly, if you take worship to its pinnacle, you are in perfect meditation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship,Meditation|1597	Yes, truly, worship unreservedly. Perfect this. Then, after initiation, internalize that worship through yoga practices given by a satguru. Through that same internal worship, unreservedly, you will eventually attain the highest goal.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/47	Worship,Meditation,Guru|1598	Prior to finding the satguru, we are free to study all the scriptures of the world, of all religions, relate and interrelate them in our mind, manipulate their meanings and justify their final conclusions. We are free to study all of the sects and sampradāyas, all denominations, lineages and teachings, everything under the banner of Hinduism.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1599	Scriptures within Hinduism are voluminous. The methods of teaching are awesome in their multiplicity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Hinduism|1600	Have full faith that when your guru does appear, after you have made yourself ready through the ten restraints and the first five practices, you will know in every nerve current of your being that this is your guide on the path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1602	Siddhānta śravaṇa is a discipline, an ancient traditional practice in satguru lineages, to carry the devotee from one chakra in consciousness to another.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru,Hinduism|1604	Siddhānta śravaṇa is more than just focusing on a single doctrine. It is developing through scriptural study an entirely new mind fabric, subconsciously and consciously, which will entertain an explanation for all future prārabdha karmas and karmas created in this life to be experienced for the duration of the physical life of the disciple.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Karma,Hinduism|1605	Siddhānta śravaṇa literally means “scriptural listening.” It is one thing to read the Vedas, Upanishads and Yoga Sūtras, but it is quite another to hear their teachings from one who knows, because it is through hearing that the transmission of subtle knowledge occurs, from knower to seeker.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru,Hinduism|1606	Because sound is the first creation, knowledge is transferred through sound of all kinds. It is important that one listen to the highest truths of a sampradāya from one who has realized them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom,Guru|1608	One must come to the guru open, like a child, ready and willing to absorb, and to go through many tests. And this is why one must choose one’s guru wisely and be ready for such an event in one’s life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1609	Sampradāya actually means an orally transmitted tradition, unwritten and unrecorded in any other way. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru,Hinduism|1610	But really potent sampradāya is listening, actually listening, to the guru’s words, his explanations. It stimulates thought. Once-remembered words take on new meanings. Old knowledge is burnt out and replaced with new. This is sampradāya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru,Hinduism|1611	Are you ready for a satguru? Perhaps not. When you are ready, and he comes into your life through a dream, a vision or a personal meeting, the process begins.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1612	The devotee takes one step toward the guru—a simple meeting, a simple dream. The guru is bound to take nine steps toward the devotee, not ten, not eleven or twelve, only nine, and then wait for the devotee to take one more step.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1614	When a spiritual experience comes, a real awakening of light, a flash of realization, a knowing that has never been seen in print, or if it had been is long-since forgotten, it gives great courage to the devotee to find that it had already been experienced and written about by others within his chosen sampradāya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1616	Life is long; there are apparently many years ahead. But time is short. One never knows when he is going to die. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom,Facing Life|1617	The purpose of sampradāya is to restrict and narrow down, to reach out to an attainable goal.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru,Wisdom|1620	The yamas and niyamas are the core of Hindu disciplines and restraints for individuals, groups, communities and nations. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1622	Since the sampradāyas are all based on Hinduism, which is based on the Vedas, any teacher of Indian spirituality who rejects the Vedas is therefore not a Hindu and should not be considered as such.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Hinduism,Guru|1625	What one has merely memorized is not transforming and is forgotten perhaps shortly after death. Let there be no mistake that siddhānta śravaṇa, scriptural listening, is the only way; and when the seeker is ready, the guru will appear and enter his life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Hinduism,Wisdom,Guru|1626	Cognition means understanding; but deeper than understanding, it is seeing through to the other side of the results that a thought, a word or an action would have in the future, before the thought, word or action has culminated.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1627	Mati is the development of a spiritual will and intellect through the grace of a satguru, an enlightened master. Mati can only come this way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru,Wisdom|1628	The guru’s guidance is supreme in the life of the dedicated devotee who is open for training.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1629	The verbal lineages of the many sampradāyas have withstood the tests of time, turmoil, decay and ravage of external hostility. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1632	To say, “I have awakened my throat chakra,” “I now live in my third eye” or “I am developing my sahasrāra chakra,” without being able to admit to being under a guru, a satguru who knows and is personally directing the devotee, is foolishness, a matter of imagination.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1633	It is in the heart chakra, the chakra of cognition, that seekers see through the veils of ignorance, illusion, māyā’s interacting preservation, creation and destruction, and gain a unity with and love for the universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1635	Coming under a satguru, one performs according to the guru’s direction with full faith and confidence. This is why scriptures say a guru must be carefully chosen, and when one is found, to follow him with all your heart, to obey and fulfill his every instruction better than he would have expected you to.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Guru|1638	The three malas that bind us are: māyā, the ever-perpetuating dance of creation, preservation and dissolution; karma (our prārabdha karma, brought with us to face in this life, along with the karma we are creating now and will create in the future); and āṇava, the ego, ignorance or sense of separateness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom,Karma|1639	Māyā can be understood, seen through and adjusted to through the heart-chakra powers of cognition, contentment and compassion. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Facing Life,Wisdom|1640	Karmas can be harnessed through regular forms of disciplinary practices of body, mind and emotions, and the understanding of the law of karma itself as a force that is sent out through thought, feeling and action and most often returns to us through other peoples’ thought, feeling and action.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1641	But it is the āṇava mala, the mala of personal ego, that is the binding chain which cannot be so easily dealt with. It is the last to go. It is only at the point of death, before the greatest mahāsamādhi of the greatest ṛishi, that the āṇava mala chain is finally broken.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1642	The wise say, “Pride goes before a fall.” And the still wiser know that “spiritual pride is the most difficult pride to deal with, to eliminate, to rise above in a lifetime.” The spiritually proud never open themselves to a satguru. The mystically humble do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom,Guru|1643	Spiritual pride is the most difficult pride to deal with, to eliminate, to rise above in a lifetime.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1644	The spiritually proud never open themselves to a satguru. The mystically humble do. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom,Guru|1645	Acute intelligence, of course, means “see-through” or panoramic intelligence which cognizes the entire picture rather than only being aware of one of its parts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1646	The intellect, like the emotions, is a force, disciplined or undisciplined, propelled by right knowledge or wrong knowledge.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1648	The intellect is a neutral tool which can be used for bad or for good purposes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1650	Mati, in summary, is the harnessing of the intellect by the soul to live a spiritual life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1653	There is no reason to believe that developing and unfolding the ten petals of the maṇipūra chakra comes easily. To develop an indomitable will capable of the accomplishments needed as a prerequisite to make the upward climb to the anāhata, viśuddha, ājÑā and sahasrāra chakras, and to sustain the benign attitudes of humility, is certainly not an easy task.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1654	Willpower is the muscle of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1655	The maṇipūra chakra is the sun center of the physical body and of the astral body, the place where all nerve currents of these two bodies meet and merge. It emanates the power of life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom|1657	The more you use your personal, individual willpower in your religious service, in your business life, your personal life, your home life, your temple life, in fulfilling all the yamas and niyamas, the more willpower you have. It is an accumulative, ever-growing bank account.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/51	Wisdom,Facing Life|1658	Taking a vow is a sacred trust between yourself, your outer self, your inner self, your loved ones and closest friends. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom|1659	A vow is a sacred trust between you and your guardian devas, the devas that surround the temple you most frequent and the Mahādevas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Gods,Wisdom|1660	A vrata is a sacred trust with God, Gods and guru made at a most auspicious time in one’s life. Vrata is a binding force, binding the external mind to the soul and the soul to the Divine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom,Guru,Gods|1661	Vratas give the strength to withstand the temptations of the instinctive forces that naturally come up as one goes on through life—not to suppress them but to rechannel them into a lifestyle fully in accord with the yamas and niyamas. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Wisdom|1662	Many people think that initiation is like a graduation, the end of study. This is not true. Initiation is the beginning of study, the beginning of sādhana, the beginning of learning.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Guru|1664	In taking a vrata, at the moment it is heard by priests, elders and all community members, when one hears oneself taking it, and all three worlds rejoice, a balanced scale has been created.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom|1665	Yes, the only failure is that experienced by the one who quits, gives up, turns his back on the path and walks the other way, into the realms of darkness, beyond even the reach of the Gods. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom,Facing Life|1666	A religious vrata is a contract between yourself, the religious community, the devas and the Gods and your guru	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom,Facing Life,Gods,Guru|1668	A vow is never only to oneself. This is important to remember. A vow is always to God, Gods and guru, community and respected elders.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom,Gods,Guru|1669	The simplest of mantras is Aum, pronounced “AA, OO, MMM.” The AA balances the physical forces when pronounced separately from the OO and the MMM, as the OO balances the astral and mental bodies. The MMM brings the spiritual body into the foreground. And when pronounced all together, AA-OO-MMM, all three bodies are harmonized.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Sadhana|1670	Aum is a safe mantra which may be performed without a guru’s guidance by anyone of any religious background living on this planet, as it is the primal sound of the universe itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Sadhana|1671	It is the śakti of the guru, of the Gods and the devas that give power to the mantra.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Sadhana,Gods,Guru|1672	There is no way that mantras can be sold and be effective. There is no way that the dīkshā of mantra initiation, which permits japa, could be effective for someone who was not striving to fulfill the first seventeen of the yamas and niyamas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Sadhana,Guru|1673	There is no way a mantra can be learned from a book and be effective. Therefore, approach the guru cautiously and with a full heart. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Sadhana,Guru|1674	You, the guru, your family and your friends will all know when you are on the threshold of mantra dīkshā, which when performed by an established guru is called guru dīkshā.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Sadhana,Guru|1675	To atone for misdeeds, penance is obligatory. We must quickly mitigate future effects of the causes we have set into action.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Karma,Facing Life|1677	Tapas is walking through the rain, completely drenched, and when the storm stops, not being wet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Karma|1679	Tapas is a mind in turmoil, insane unto its very self. A psychic surgery is being performed by the Gods themselves. When the operation is over, the patient has been cut loose of the dross of all past lives.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Karma,Facing Life|1680	Truly, tapas in its fullest form is sought for only by the renunciate under the guidance of a satguru	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Karma,Facing Life,Guru|1681	Sacrifice may be the least-practiced austerity, and the most important. It is the act of giving up to a greater power a cherished possession (be it money, time, intelligence or a physical object) to manifest a greater good. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Facing Life|1682	Let’s worship the Earth. It is a being—intelligent and always giving. Our physical bodies are sustained by her abundance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Worship,Wisdom|1683	We must remember that the yamas are restraints, ten clues as to what forces to restrain and how to restrain them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Wisdom,Sadhana|1684	Austerity is the powerful bath of fire and bright rays of showering light that washes the soul clean of the dross of its many past lives, and of the current life, which have held it in the bondage of ignorance, misgiving, unforgivingness and the self-perpetuating ignorance of the truths of the Sanātana Dharma. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Karma,Sadhana|1685	Austerities should be assigned by a guru, a swāmī or a qualified elder of the community. One should submit to wise guidance, because these sādhanas, penances, tapas and sacrifices lift our consciousness so that we can deal with, learn to live with, the perfection of the self-luminous, radiant, eternal being of the soul within. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Wisdom,Facing Life,Guru,Karma,Sadhana|1686	Yes, austerities are a vital part of all sects of Hinduism. They are a call of the soul to bring the outer person into the perfection that the soul is now, has always been and will always be.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Karma,Hinduism,Sadhana|1687	The masculine and feminine forces, partly sexual but more broadly tantric, can either create or destroy, bring peace or contention, foster happiness or misery, depending on how consciously they are understood and utilized.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom|1688	Hindu ideals of manhood and womanhood and their interaction are among the most subtle, insightful and graceful in all the world. When followed, these principles strengthen man and woman, sustain a joyous and balanced marriage, stabilize the family and assist husband and wife in their mutual spiritual and worldly goals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Hinduism,Wisdom,Sadhana|1689	What is religious life? It is the balance of two forces, the odic force and the actinic force.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Hinduism|1691	Brahmacharya, the yoga of celibacy, is a traditional practice in Śaivite Hinduism. It allows the adolescent or young adult to use his vital energies to prepare for a rewarding life, to develop his mind and talents for his chosen vocation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Hinduism,Facing Life,Sadhana|1692	The first of the four stages, or āśramas, of life is actually called the brahmacharya āśrama. Love, including sex, is one of the legitimate four goals of life, according to our religion. Sex is not bad. Its place, however, is properly within the confines of a sanctified marriage.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism,Sadhana|1693	The goal of the brahmachārī and brahmachāriṇī is not to become fearful of sex, but to understand sex and the sexual impulses in a balanced way. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom,Hinduism,Sadhana|1694	During the time of brahmacharya, the goal is to control the sex urges and transmute those vital energies into the brain to gain a great mental and spiritual strength. Yes, this vital life force must be focused on studies and spiritual pursuits.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Hinduism,Wisdom,Sadhana|1695	Brahmacharya maintained until marriage, and faithfulness thereafter, helps enable the devotee to merit a good wife or husband, a happy, stable marriage and secure, well-adjusted children.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Hinduism,Wisdom,Sadhana|1696	For the individual preparing for monastic life, brahmacharya is essential in harnessing and transmuting the powerful sexual life energies into spiritual and religious concerns. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Hinduism,Wisdom,Sadhana|1698	The connection formed between a man and a woman during intercourse makes a psychic, astral, umbilical-cord-like tube in the lower astral-plane world which lasts for twelve years or more.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma,Hinduism|1702	Ideally, brahmacharya begins at puberty for virgins and continues on until marriage.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1705	It is the virgins performing brahmacharya sādhana since puberty who can, if they persist, live in “Brahm,” or God consciousness, most of the time, even without performing intense sādhanas. This is because they have never consciously entered into worldly consciousness. Instead they look out into it as if through a veil. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism,Sadhana|1706	The force of kuṇḍalinī flows as a river through men and women. Sexual intercourse gives that river an outlet, creates a channel, a psychic-astral tube between their mūlādhāra chakras.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1708	Man’s ultimate quest, the final evolutionary frontier, is within man himself. It is the Truth spoken by Vedic ṛishis as the Self within man, attainable through control of the mind and purification.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Hinduism,The Self,Sadhana|1709	It is karma that keeps us from knowing of and reaching life’s final goal, yet it is wrong to even call it a goal. It is what is known by the knower to have always existed. It is not a matter of becoming the Self, but of realizing that you never were not the Self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Karma,The Self,Hinduism|1710	And what is that Self? It is Paraśiva. It is God. It is That which is beyond the mind, beyond thought, feeling and emotion, beyond time, form and space.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|1711	Every soul’s ultimate goal, in this life or another, is to realize its oneness with God. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/26	The Self,Siva|1712	When karma is controlled through yoga and dharma well performed, and the energies are transmuted to their ultimate state, the Vedic Truth of life discovered by the ṛishis so long ago becomes obvious. ¶That goal is to realize God Śiva in His absolute, or transcendent, state, which when realized is your own ultimate state—timeless, formless, spaceless Truth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Karma,Siva,The Self,Hinduism,Sadhana|1713	That Truth lies beyond the thinking mind, beyond the feeling nature, beyond action or any movement of the vṛittis, the waves of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|1715	One comes back and back again into flesh simply to realize Paraśiva. Nothing more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|1716	The Self, or Paraśiva, is an experience only after it has been experienced. Yet, it is not an experience at all, but the only possible nonexperience, which registers in its aftermath upon the mind of man. Prior to that, it is a goal. After realization, one thing is lost, the desire for the Self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|1717	The clouding of the mirror of the mind—that reflective pond of awareness which when calm sees clearly—or the ripples of disturbance on the mind’s surface distort seeing and confuse understanding. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Karma,Facing Life|1718	Paraśiva is an experience that can be likened to the hand feeling and the eyes seeing one’s own face for the first time. But it is not experience of one thing discovering another, as in the discovery of one’s face. It is the Self experiencing itself. Experience, experienced and experiencer are one and the same.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|1720	When the soul is spiritually mature, we know when we’re ready to know the Self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self,Wisdom|1721	Worship of Lord Gaṇeśa sets the path of dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Hinduism,Worship,Gods|1723	To live the perfect life of the gṛihastha dharma, of family life, brings as its fulfillment the all-knowing bliss of Sat­chid­ānanda, realizing ourself not as formless Paraśiva but as the pure consciousness that sustains and pervades all forms in the universe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Wisdom,Siva,Hinduism|1724	Yes, there is a sense of urgency on the path of enlightenment, but only when we are unburdened of karma, only when we are walking the path of dharma. Only then can true yoga be practiced and perfected. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|1725	In each birth we must fulfill more goals leading to the one ultimate goal which after many births well lived will loom before us as the only goal worthy of striving for in this lifetime.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self,Facing Life|1726	All other desires, all other aims and ambitions pale under the brilliance of even the thought of realization of Sat­chid­ānanda and Paraśiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva,The Self|1727	In fulfillment of our duties to parents, relations and the community at large, become a good householder, be a good citizen, live a rewarding physical, emotional and intellectual existence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1728	Being content with what you have does not mean you cannot discriminate and seek to progress in life. It doesn’t mean you should not use your willpower and fulfill your plans. ¶It does mean you should not become upset while you are striving toward your goals, frustrated or unhappy if you do not get what you want.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/43	|1729	Still other goals must be met: quieting the energies, the prāṇas, through prā­ṇā­yāma, purifying or refining mind and emotion, quelling the ever-constant movement of the restless external mind and its immediate subconscious, where memories are stored, preserved memories which give rise to fear, anger, hatred and jealousy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Sadhana,Karma,Facing Life|1730	It is our past that colors and conditions, actually creates, the future. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1733	Ours is the path of not only endeavoring to awaken the higher nature, but at the same time and toward the same end dealing positively and consciously with the remnants of the lower nature, replacing charity for greed and dealing with, rather than merely suppressing, jealousy, hatred and anger.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Wisdom|1735	While living in a normal agitated state of fears, worries and doubts, seeing the deeper truths is impossible. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1736	This wrong identification of who we are must be unlearned.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Facing Life,Wisdom|1737	Before we actually begin serious sādhana, we must understand ourselves better, understand the three phases of the mind: instinctive, intellectual and superconscious. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1739	Seeing the mind in its totality convinces the seeker that he is something else, he is the witness who observes the mind and cannot, therefore, be the mind itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1740	The mind in its superconsciousness is pure. We do not have to purify it, except to carry out its native purity into life, into the intellect by obtaining right knowledge and transmuting the instinctive or animal qualities. This is accomplished from within out. It is not as difficult as it may seem. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1741	We must live in the now to follow the path to enlightenment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1742	In the lower realms of the mind, where time and space seem very real, we are worried about the past or concerned about the future. These two intermingle and limit conscious awareness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1743	Living in the past or the future obstructs us in this way: the past, by reliving old experiences—mainly the negative ones, for they are vividly remembered—clouds our vision of the future. Living in the future overactivates the intellect, the emotion and the desires. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1744	The future is little more than another form of mental fantasy. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1746	A person functioning in the now is in control of his own mind. He is naturally happier, more successful.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|1748	To attain even the permission to perform yoga one must have the grace of Lord Gaṇeśa and the grace of Lord Murugan. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Sadhana,Gods|1749	Lord Murugan is the God of the kuṇḍa­linī, of the advanced yogic practices.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Gods|1751	It is the Gods who control the fire and at this stage help the devotee immensely, bringing him closer and closer to the supreme God, Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Gods,Siva|1753	After the first intercourse, awareness is turned outward into the external world and the man or woman is more vulnerable to the forces of desire.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1757	The release of the sacred seed into the woman during sexual intercourse establishes, through the first chakra, a connecting psychic astral tube which can be clearly seen on the astral plane. It is through this psychic tube that desires, feelings and even telepathic messages can be passed from one to another. This connecting tube is generally about six inches in diameter.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1760	It is the brahmachārī’s duty to be the channel of the three worlds. In this way he can help stabilize humanity through the Kali Yuga so that the forces of promiscuous desire do not blot out our culture, creativity and all connection with the Śivaloka. This is why the sādhana of brahmacharya is so extremely important for each unmarried Śaivite to understand and observe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom|1761	As a brahmachārī or brahmachāriṇī, you must endeavor to hold the force of the Śivaloka and the Devaloka in line with the higher forces of the Bhūloka, the Earth plane. This happens naturally through the transmutation process and living a contemplative life. Regular personal sādhana and noninvolvement in the emotional nature of others is the practice to be observed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom,Sadhana|1762	The māyā we seek to understand envelops the soul, inside and out. The hypnosis it creates baffles thought and word. When you are freed from it, your knowledge becomes purified. Transmuted into the bliss called Śivānanda, it becomes a protective roof over you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/29	Wisdom,Facing Life|1763	We have to change our perspective and begin to realize that beautiful body of the soul which has been growing through the many, many lifetimes that we have spent on the Earth. It’s an indestructible body, and each lifetime it grows a little bit stronger in its inner nerve system. That is called the soul, or the psyche.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1764	This soul body has been in existence for some thousand years or more on this planet, through the reincarnation process, and it is rather mature when the individual asks for the realization of the Self. It has lived so many lifetimes and gone through so many different experiences that in its maturity it wants its last experience on this Earth, that of Self Realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Facing Life,The Self|1765	The layers went onto the body of the soul—the instinctive, the intellectual, the physical. And now, in its maturity, the layers are coming off again. We drop off the intellect. We drop off the instinctive actions and reactions. The only thing we want to keep is the physical body and the body of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom,Meditation|1766	When the beautiful, refined body of light and the physical body merge as one, we see light all the way through the physical body, right into the feet, into the hands, through the head, through the torso, through the spine. We’re just walking in a sea of light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation|1767	If you looked into the central source of energy, what would you see? You would see light coming out of nothing. That’s what it looks like, light coming out of nothing. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation|1768	The Self God is within all of this. It is beyond all bodies. It is beyond all form. It is beyond all intellect, beyond time, beyond space. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	The Self|1770	And then, once realized, you live out the life of the physical body and do what you can do in service to your fellow man, who is also coming along the same path that you have walked on before.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	The Self,Facing Life|1771	All knowing also is right within you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation|1772	This body of light of the soul is the body of the superconscious mind. It is all-knowing. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation|1773	All knowing also is right within you. This body of light of the soul is the body of the superconscious mind. It is all-knowing. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation|1774	It’s a beautiful thing to think about, that all knowing is within man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation,Facing Life|1775	Everything that has been brought through—all books, all systems, all religions, all philosophies—has come through man, but not always through the intellectual man or the instinctive man, but through the man whose body of his soul and his physical body have merged as one.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation,Wisdom|1776	Even the devil that they talk about, it’s also right within us. That’s the instinctive mind. That’s also the intellectual mind, the doubter that says, “I don’t know if I should be on the path to enlightenment."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1777	The body of the soul, the real body of you, what does it do? It’s about its business, working, learning, studying on inner planes of consciousness and waiting for the instinctive and intellectual and physical elements to grow up a little bit and merge, for life is just a tremendously great experience. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom|1780	The fewer experiences we have, the slower we evolve.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1781	The more experiences we can have and face those experiences positively, the faster we evolve. The fewer experiences we have, the slower we evolve.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1782	The knowing of how to handle each experience that comes to us in our lifetime comes from the soul. It’s our superconscious self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1784	The instinctive mind will want to run after certain experiences and be repelled by other experiences. It is the area of duality, of likes and dislikes. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Karma,Wisdom|1786	The intellectual mind will rationalize other types of experiences that happen to us during a lifetime, argue them out and try to find out reasons why. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1787	The superconscious mind of the soul will know the reason why. It will come in an intuitive flash.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma,Meditation|1788	The spiritual body of you, which is permanent, has always remained constant.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1791	Identify yourself as the inner being. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1792	Never see yourself as an outer being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1793	Identify yourself as the inner being. Never see yourself as an outer being. Then experience won’t be reacted to. It will be understood from a mountaintop consciousness. Then experience won’t be sought for the enjoyment of the experience. The Self will be sought for, and the experience will be part of the path to you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma,The Self|1794	Each experience that we have is a good experience, because it molds us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Karma,Wisdom,Facing Life|1795	From an ugly hunk of clay can emerge a divine being, molded by the artist.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1796	The experiences of life, even those that boomerang back on us and those we think are terrible, mold us. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1798	The mere fact that you want Self Realization in this life means that you have been through hundreds of thousands of experiences. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,The Self,Karma|1801	Life is a series of experiences, one after another. Each experience can be looked at as a classroom in the big university of life if we only approach it that way. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1802	Who is the member of this university of life? It’s not your instinctive mind. It’s not your intellectual mind. It’s the body of your soul, your superconscious self, that wonderful body of light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1804	The beings of the New Age are going to walk on Earth. Each one will have light flowing through his whole body and he will inwardly see his body glowing in light, even in the darkest night. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Meditation|1805	The good-and-bad concept should be thrown out with a lot of other things, including the up-and-down concept.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1807	There is no good; there is no bad. You don’t raise your consciousness, nor do you lower it. These are just concepts that have come in by various philosophers who tried to explain these deeper teachings the very best that they could. What is bad is good, and what is good is good. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1808	What is bad is good, and what is good is good.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1810	The mystic does not go up and down in consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1811	It makes it very difficult when we hold the up-and-down and good-and-bad concepts, because they work in time sequences. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom,Meditation|1813	We have all of these semantic connotations with the words good and bad and up and down, and therefore we throw them out of our mystical vocabulary and the connotations that go along with them. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1814	We say we go within, deep within. We say we come out into outer consciousness. We say there is no good, there is no bad, there is just experience, and within each experience there is a lesson. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1815	Some experiences might make our nervous system react so strongly that it may take hours to pull ourselves together. But once we pull ourselves together, that exercise evolves the body of the soul that much more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1817	Our intellect has been trained by family and friends, schoolteachers and business acquaintances. We have to build a new intellect, an intellect from the soul out into the intellectual mind, rather than from the instinctive area of the mind into the intellect, to be successful on the path of enlightenment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1818	If we look at the past and we look at the future as both a series of dreams, and the only thing that we are concerned with is our immediate reactions and what we carry with us now, we see that the past is there to test us and the future is there to challenge us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life|1819	We cannot change the past, but we can change how we react to what has happened to us in the past, and we can change the future, anytime we want to.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1820	The soul builds a body around us in this life.This body goes through the same experiences, year after year; the emotions go through the same experiences, year after year, until we build up strong enough within ourself to face the experience without reaction to the experience. Then we go into a new series of experiences. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1821	We go through one set of experiences. We react to them. We go within ourselves. We lose consciousness of the experience itself because we know how it was created. We studied it out so well. It has come to us in intuitive flashes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation,Karma|1822	Now, when the mystic wants to understand his series of experiences, he does not analyze himself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation,Karma|1824	The mystic waits for these intuitive flashes, and he links one up with another. But he doesn’t flow his awareness through the intellectual mind and spend time in that area to try to analyze each happening or each reaction to try to justify it, to excuse it or to find out why it has happened.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/31	Facing Life,Wisdom,Karma|1828	How can you seek these more refined areas during sleep? This is done through chanting and meditating before going to sleep, and through praying for guidance from Lord Gaṇeśa. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation,Gods|1830	It is only sexual intercourse between a man and a woman that breaks brahmacharya sādhana.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life,Sadhana|1832	If there are other tubes involved due to pre-marital promiscuity, or new ones being created with members of the opposite sex outside of the marriage, the children suffer emotionally while growing up. The unleashed forces of instinctiveness may often cause them to be disturbed or frustrated.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1833	As a child grows to maturity, he gradually detaches himself, year by year, from the connection between his father and mother. The detachment is complete by the age of twenty-five.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1835	Virgins also have strong temptations with the opposite sex from time to time, especially if they meet former spouses from past lives. Unless a strict understanding of brahmacharya is observed, these encounters with past-life lovers may move their fluids and emotions to the point of intercourse.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1836	All parents should explain to their children at an early age the importance of remaining virgin until married. They must be taught that the elations and the depressions that follow from disciplining oneself are a part of life on this planet. They can be gently but firmly taught the practice of mentally and physically “walking away” from temptation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life|1838	Brahmacharya literally means Godly conduct, which in practice and by tradition means celibacy, complete abstinence from sexual relations. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1839	Brahmacharya is practiced traditionally by: 1) monastics; 2) young persons living at home with parents prior to entering marriage or a monastery; 3) single persons living alone in the world; and 4) married couples who observe celibacy in later life, generally after age sixty.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|1840	In our traditional and strict organization, the formal title brahmachārī (or brahmachāriṇī) is used only by single men (or women) who have taken lifetime vows of celibacy under the auspices of our Śaivite Hindu Church. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Hinduism,Facing Life|1841	In our Hindu Church, all young persons take such a pledge and promise to remain virgin until such time as they are married.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Wisdom,Facing Life,Sadhana,Hinduism|1843	As the fourth yama, or restraint, brahmacharya is emulated in married life in the sense of fidelity, confining all sexual thoughts and expressions to one’s spouse.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Hinduism,Sadhana,Facing Life,Wisdom|1844	Brahmacharya is transmutation—the changing of a grosser form or force into a finer one. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom,Sadhana|1846	Those who practice transmutation awaken many latent talents from within. It becomes second nature for them to create and express, being in tune with the essence of creative energy. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Hinduism,Sadhana,Facing Life,Wisdom|1847	The goal of perfect brahmacharya is the continual re-channeling of sexual desire.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Hinduism,Sadhana,Wisdom,The Self|1848	Through sādhana you can gain mastery over all the forces of your mind and body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana|1849	As man leaves his instinctive-intellectual nature and unfolds spiritually, the forces of that nature must be brought under his conscious control. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Facing Life,Wisdom|1850	You are not alone in your study and desire for spiritual unfoldment. It is known by all mystically minded people that “As we think, so we become.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom|1851	Thinking of the great Mahādevas and Deities of high evolution stimulates our own evolution. Our spiritual unfoldment is hastened. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Gods,Facing Life,Wisdom,Worship|1852	Each night you are taught many wonderful things on the inner plane during sleep. You may not realize this upon awakening or even remember what you have learned. This is because the astral brain functions at a much higher rate of vibration than the physical brain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life|1853	When one is firm in the practice of brahmacharya, it is possible to remain for long periods of time in inner-plane schools and absorb much more of the teaching being given there.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Facing Life,Wisdom|1854	Remember, your own soul knows the reasons why you were born in this life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Wisdom|1855	The more fully established you are in brahmacharya, the more religious you become and the more able to face the world with a positive mental attitude.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/59	Sadhana,Facing Life,Wisdom|1856	According to the ancient science of āyurveda, nature is a primordial force of life composed in three modes, qualities or principles of manifestation called guṇas, meaning “strands” or “qualities.” The three guṇas are: sattva, “beingness;” rajas, “dynamism;” and tamas, “darkness.” Sattva is tranquil energy, rajas is active energy and tamas is energy that is inert.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Hinduism|1857	The nature of sattva is quiescent, rarefied, translucent, pervasive. The nature of rajas is movement, action, emotion. The nature of tamas is inertia, denseness, contraction, resistance and dissolution. The tamasic tendency is descending, odic and instinctive. The rajasic tendency is expanding, actinodic, intellectual. The sattvic tendency is ascending, actinic, superconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Hinduism,Wisdom|1859	The nature of rajas is movement, action, emotion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1860	The nature of tamas is inertia, denseness,	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1861	What we eat is important. Sattvic food is especially good for a contemplative life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1862	Tamasic foods include heavy meats, and foods that are spoiled, treated, processed or refined to the point where the natural values are no longer present. Tamasic foods make the mind dull; they tend to build up the basic odic energies of the body and the instinctive subconscious mind. Tamasic foods also imbue the astral body with heavy, odic force. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1863	Tamasic foods make the mind dull; they tend to build up the basic odic energies of the body and the instinctive subconscious mind. Tamasic foods also imbue the astral body with heavy, odic force. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1864	Rajasic foods include hot or spicy foods, spices and stimulants. These increase the odic heat of the physical and astral bodies and stimulate physical and mental activity. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1865	Sattvic foods include whole grains and legumes and fresh fruits and vegetables that grow above the ground. These foods help refine the astral and physical bodies, allowing the actinic, superconscious flow to permeate and invigorate the entire being. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1868	The rajasic nature is restless and manifests itself in physical and intellectual activities. It is predominant in the spirit of nationalism, sports and business competition, law enforcement and armed forces and other forms of aggressive activity. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|1869	The tamasic nature is dull, fearful and heavy. It is the instinctive mind in its negative state and leads to laziness, habitual living, physical and mental inertia.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|1870	As it is by cultivating the rajasic nature that tamas is overcome, so it is by evolving into the pure sattvic nature that the continual ramification of rajas is transcended.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1871	The desire body of the conscious mind may want one type of food, but the inner body of the subsuperconscious may realize another is better for you. It is up to you to make the decision that will allow a creative balance in your diet. This awakens the inner willpower, that strength from within that gives the capacity for discrimination.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1872	Each type of food taken into the body tends to make us aware in one or another area of the nerve system.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|1873	When we eat gross food, we become aware in the gross area of the nerve system, and less aware in the refined area of the nerve system.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1874	When we eat refined foods, such as fruit and vegetables that grow above the ground and absorb sunlight, this then makes us aware in the refined areas of the nerve system.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1875	When we are aware in the gross areas of the nerve system, over time the cells of the physical body begin to reflect this and cause the body to become gross in appearance. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1878	Ayurvedic nutrition for meditation and the practice of haṭha yoga āsanas are an aid in refining the physical body by allowing awareness to travel through the perceptive areas of the nerve system that are inner, refined and blissful.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1879	In deciding what foods you will buy and eat, listen to the voice of your intuition, which knows best what your current physical body needs are. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1880	Emotion is a condition or color of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	|1881	Of course, we have an emotional diet as well. Emotion is a condition or color of the mind. Emotions will always be with us as long as we have a physical body, but there is a difference between having emotion and being emotional.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1882	Emotions will always be with us as long as we have a physical body, but there is a difference between having emotion and being emotional. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1883	We have to balance our emotional activity. Our entertainment, our cultural pursuits, our social activities should be balanced and blended with everything else that we are doing. It would be a good idea to plan an entire month’s emotional diet along with your physical diet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|1884	How much information, how many facts is it necessary and healthy for us to ingest in a single day? It’s a good idea for a devotee to budget his reading, to choose and discriminate what he wants to make a part of himself through the process of mental digestion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1887	Just as you would participate in a seminar, gaining from the interpersonal relationships, so can you learn from the intrapersonal relationship established between your perceptive state of mind and the conscious and subconscious states of mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1888	When you awaken to the point where your inner mind teaches your personality, you are involving yourself in the “innerversity” of your own being. But this will not occur until you have balanced your physical and emotional bodies to the point where they are functioning at a slightly higher rate of vibration.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|1890	Working creatively with your hands, taking physical substance and turning it into something different, new and beautiful is important in remolding the subconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1891	Observe your life objectively for a minute and decide how much of a working balance actually exists between your physical, emotional, mental and actinic aspects.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1892	Every experience that we ingest is going to produce its own reaction. In surveying our own internal balance of tamasic, rajasic and sattvic tendencies, we need to apply the power of discrimination so that everything we take into our mind and body can be easily and harmoniously digested and assimilated. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1894	Life becomes overly complicated, a series of self-created and unnecessary involvements, when we live too much in the tamasic and rajasic natures. It is necessary to slow down the activity of everyday life by entering into sattvic awareness as a matter of practice.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom,Meditation|1895	Life is tiring and overactive in the conscious, physical plane when it is not balanced and tempered by the sattvic nature. The greater the sattvic activity, the greater the activity of the spiritual being that man is.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom,Meditation|1897	It is wise to have a free mind, a clear, serene and relaxed attitude toward life before partaking of food.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1900	Do not  overeat, leave one-third to one-quarter of the stomach empty to aid digestion; and sitting quietly for a few minutes after meals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1901	Our āyurvedic doctor has taught us, and experience confirms, that fresh ginger can settle your stomach, relieve a headache, help you sleep if you are restless and keep the agni, fires of digestion, strong.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism|1903	Let every second be a second of discrimination. Let every minute be a minute of realization. Let every hour be an hour of fulfillment. Let every day be a day of blessing, and every week a week of joy. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1904	Television provides so much of the mental diet of so many people today that it deserves special attention, lest it become a deterrent to a balanced, contemplative life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1905	Śaivites know that our karmas are forces we send out from ourselves—creative forces, preserving forces, destroying forces, and a mixture of either two or the three—and they usually come back to us through other people or groups of people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom,Karma,Hinduism|1906	Śaivites know nothing can happen, physically, mentally or emotionally, but that it is seeded in our prārabdha karmas, the action-reaction patterns brought with us to this birth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1908	Television can be very entertaining and helpful, or it can be insidiously detrimental, depending on how it is used. Therefore, fortify your mind with a thorough understanding of what you are watching.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1909	Television works on the subconscious mind. This is an area of the mind which we are not usually conscious of when it is functioning, but it is functioning nevertheless, constantly, twenty-four hours a day.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1910	Television works strongly on the subconscious minds of children. If they watch TV for long periods of time, they begin to think exactly as the programmers want them to think. Responsible parents have to choose just what goes into their children’s minds, as well as into their own minds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|1911	Astrology explores the stars and planets as they move in the heavens and their subtle effects on our physical, mental and emotional condition, mapping the ebb and flow of our karma. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Hinduism,Karma|1912	Astrology plays a very important part in every Hindu’s life. An established family is not complete without their master of jyotisha. Guided by the stars from birth to death, devout Hindus choose a śubha muhūrta, auspicious time, for every important experience of life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Hinduism,Karma,Wisdom,Facing Life|1913	Guided by the stars from birth to death, devout Hindus choose a śubha muhūrta, auspicious time, for every important experience of life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Hinduism,Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|1914	Experience assures us that astrology is a reliable tool for maintaining a balanced life and flowing with the forces of nature. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism|1915	When unfavorable times arise which have to be lived through, as they all too frequently do, we do not carp or cringe, but look at these as most excellent periods for meditation and sādhana rather than worldly activities.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom,Sadhana|1917	A competent jyotisha śāstrī is of help in forecasting the future, as to when propitious times will come along when advancements can be made. A positive mental attitude should be held during all the ups and downs that are predicted to happen.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom,Karma|1918	Difficulties need not be bad news if they are approached as opportunities to grow in facing them. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|1919	We have for years in our monasteries lived by the Hindu calendar and system of time divisions known as Lahiri Ayanāṁśa PaÑchānga. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life,Hinduism|1921	When you become master of yourself, you truly stand alone in completeness, not in loneliness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1922	Meditation is a dynamic process. It is much more than just sitting around and waiting. It creates a highly individualistic type of mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Meditation|1923	When you become master of yourself, you truly stand alone in completeness, not in loneliness. In doing so, you are able to bring forth knowledge and wisdom from yourself through the process of meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1924	There are young souls in this world, and there are old souls. The young soul shows you how you can’t do something. The old soul shows you how you can.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	The Self,Wisdom|1925	The nervous system in a young soul is, shall we say, immature. The many, many incarnational experiences of the old soul have instilled in the subtle nervous system a strength of fiber, a spiritual maturation. Therefore, the older soul entering into meditation can sustain the force and unfoldment that one meditation carries over into another. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1926	If the individual taking LSD or some other psychotropic drug is an old soul, it has perhaps awakened him so that he is able to face the new situation of his consciousness with intelligence. But the reaction inhibits further spiritual unfoldments because lower chakras are wrenched open, causing severe mood swings.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1929	The old soul, in wisdom, enters into the experience of meditation. Here he learns to control the lower forces even while he is awakening the higher forces. Therefore he can sustain himself in a higher state of consciousness. He has the strength of nerve fiber to do it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1930	Most people who take drugs are followers. They’re not leaders, they’re followers. A leader takes a stand. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1933	The youngsters in their late teens and early twenties who are going into LSD and other drugs are going to meet their karma in an unnatural sequence. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1934	When you learn the subtle arts of meditation, you will learn how to tap into your spiritual force,	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Facing Life,Meditation,Wisdom|1937	It’s pretty messy business to fool around with the law of karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1938	I tell young people who are tempted to use drugs that the power of decision is a very great power. Very few people know how to use this power, but everybody has the power of decision. It takes a little bit of willpower.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1939	It’s the Narakaloka, active every day in the lives of the people on this planet who use illegal substances. So don’t get started.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1941	You can’t escape from karma. It will always catch up with you—if not in this life then in the next.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1942	The power of decision is a great power to pass on to the next generation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1943	In Hinduism there are traditions that are strictly abstemious, and there are traditions that are open to the use of alcohol. Especially the Śaivas and Śāktas are more lenient in this matter and have no objection to the moderate, wise use of alcohol. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1944	Beer and wine, including honey wine, are referred to in the Vedas and āyurveda texts as beneficial for spiritual and religious life under the restraint of mitāhāra. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1945	Drinking should bring up the higher nature, of creativity, good ideas, conversation, philosophy, intuitive solutions to the problems of the world, healthy encounters of all kinds. One should not drink when depressed, troubled or with a group that enters into confrontation, argument, contention and criticism, personal, mental and emotional abuse. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1946	Imbibing even wine and beer falls under the restraint of mitāhāra. To overindulge would be unacceptable.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1947	One should not drink alone, not even a glass of wine or beer at a solitary dinner. All the social harnesses are absent when you drink in isolation. Then it becomes a subconscious instead of a subsuperconscious experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1949	I am often asked about tobacco. My answer is, do you want to live a happy, healthy, productive and long life, or do you want to die early and suffer all the diseases that have been documented that smoking, the world’s worst health hazard, can bring up in your body to destroy it?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/67	Wisdom,Facing Life|1950	When we study and practice our religion, we are not necessarily performing deep sādhana. We are simply dispatching our religious duties.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism|1951	Hinduism is a general and free-flowing, relaxed religion, experienced in the temple, in the āśramas, the aadheenams, at festivals, on pilgrimage and in the home. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Hinduism|1952	The performance of personal sādhana, discipline for self-transformation, is one step deeper in making religion real in one’s life. Through sādhana we learn to control the energies of the body and nerve system, and we experience that through the control of the breath the mind becomes peaceful.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1954	A vrata, vow, is often taken before serious sādhana is begun. The vrata is a personal pledge between oneself, one’s guru and the angelic beings of the inner worlds to perform the disciplines regularly, conscientiously, at the same time each day.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism,Guru,Gods|1955	The course of sādhana can be set by an elder of the Hindu community. It can also be set by one’s satguru. Your mother and father, who are your first gurus, can also set the course of sādhana for their children.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism,Guru,Wisdom,Facing Life|1956	Where does sādhana begin? It begins within the home, and it begins within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1957	By disciplining your mind, body and emotions through sādhana, you come more and more into the inner knowing of yourself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1960	Through the regular practice of scriptural study, which is a vital part of your daily sādhana vigil, you will soon find that it is possible to touch into your subsuperconscious mind and complement that study with your own inner knowing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1961	After you are well established in your sādhana, you will enjoy a greater ability to discipline your body, your breath, your nerve system and your mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1963	It is through the regular practice of concentration that awareness detaches itself from the external mind and hovers within, internalizing the knowledge of the physical body, the breath and the emotions. Concentration of the forces of the body, mind and emotions brings us automatically into meditation, dhyāna, and into deeper internalized awareness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|1964	The spiritual practice should be reasonable, should not take up too much time, and should be done at the same time every day. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1965	Consistency is the key to the conquest of karma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|1968	The sādhana that you perform will make your mind steady and your will strong so that you can move the forces of the physical world with love and understanding, rather than through anger, hatred, antagonism, cunning, jealousy and greed. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1969	Daily sādhana performed in the right way will help you overcome these instinctive barriers to peace of mind and the fullness of being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1971	Sādhana is one of the great boons given to us in our religion. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1972	When the devas within your home see you performing your sādhana each day, they give you psychic protection. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1974	The fact that the devonic world is involved is one more good reason why you must choose a specific time for sādhana and religiously keep to that time each day, for you not only have an appointment with yourself but with the devas as well.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1976	Our religion is an experiential religion, from its beginning stages to the most advanced.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Hinduism|1977	As you perform your sādhana, you will enjoy spiritual experiences within yourself on the path of self-transformation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1978	It is up to you to put your religion into practice. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Hinduism,Wisdom,Facing Life|1980	It is up to you to make the teachings a part of your life by working to understand each new concept as you persist in your daily religious practices. As a result, you will be able to brave the forces of the external world without being disturbed by them and fulfill your dharma in whatever walk of life you have chosen.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom,Sadhana|1981	When your sādhana takes hold, you may experience a profound calmness within yourself. This calmness that you experience as a result of your meditation is called Satchidānanda, the natural state of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|1983	Simply deepen this inner state by being aware that you are aware. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Facing Life,Wisdom|1984	If the prāṇa is not under the control of the individual, it is controlled by other individuals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Facing Life,Wisdom|1986	“Seek good company,” because if you can’t control your prāṇa, other people who do control their prāṇas can help you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|1987	The group helps the individual and the individual helps the group.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|1988	You do not have to be a saint, sage, philosopher or anything but an ordinary person to experience inner light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Meditation|1990	Ṛishi Tirumular was a pre-eminent theologian of our Śaiva faith, but not merely a theologian. He was also a siddhar, an accomplished yogī. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|1991	Our Hindu scriptures come from such great men, men who have attained to the deepest realizations through their sādhana and their devotion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|1993	Having lived many lives, each soul seeks release from mortality, experiences the Divine directly through Self Realization and ultimately attains moksha, liberation from the round of births and deaths. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self,Facing Life|1994	The religions of India are unique in their knowledge of the soul’s spiritual evolution through a multitude of physical incarnations.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|1996	Moksha, from the root much or moksh, has many denotations: to loose, to free, release, let loose, let go and thus also to spare, to let live, to allow to depart, to dispatch, to dismiss and even to relax, to spend, bestow, give away and open. Thus it means “release from worldly existence or transmigration; final or eternal emancipation.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|1997	Moksha is not a state of extinction of the soul, nor of nonexistence, nor of nonconsciousness. It is perfect freedom, an indescribable state of nondifferentiation, a proximity to the Divine within. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|1998	Moksha marks an end to the Earthly sojourn, but it may also be understood as a beginning, not unlike graduation from the university. Kaivalya is another apt term for this ineffable condition of perfect detachment, freedom and oneness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|1999	To reach this emancipation beyond all joy and sorrow, all difference and decay, the soul must remove, in order, the three fetters: karma, which is “the power of cause and effect, action and reaction;” māyā, which is “the power of manifestation” sometimes called illusion; and āṇava, “the power of egoity or veil of duality.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma,Facing Life|2000	Self Realization is man’s natural state, which each soul eventually comes to. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|2001	While the ultimate goal of earthly life is the experience (or more precisely the nonexperience) of Self Realization, the by-product of that realization is moksha. These two are not synonymous. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|2002	While some sects of Hinduism teach that liberation comes only upon death, most embrace the state of jīvanmukti, liberation in which the advanced soul unfolds its inherent perfection while alive.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|2003	What distinguishes the mukta from the nonliberated is his total freedom from all selfishness and attachments, his permanent abidance in the all-pervading Divine Presence, his lucid, witnessing consciousness and his jñāna, revealed in spontaneous utterances. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Wisdom|2004	To attain liberation while living, the realization of the Self has to be brought through into every aspect of life, every atom of one’s body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|2006	Through harnessing the power of sādhana and tapas, the adept advances his evolution, moving ahead ten lives or more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana,Facing Life|2007	Only great tapasvins achieve jīvanmukti, for to catalyze the death of the astral body and then revive the life forces, one must be proficient in brahmacharya, yoga, prāṇāyāma and the varied sādhanas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Sadhana,Facing Life|2009	Non-yogīs may be freed at death, provided all karmas have been worked out and the Self is realized as the body is released.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma,The Self|2010	The group helps the individual and the individual helps the group. If you mix with bad company, then the prāṇas begin to get disturbed. Once that happens, your energies are like a team of horses out of control. It takes a lot of skill and strength on the part of the individual to get those prāṇas back under control.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|2011	All Hindus accept karma and reincarnation intellectually, but the concepts are not active in their lives until they accept the responsibilities of their own actions and the experiences that follow. In doing so, no blame can fall upon another. It is all our own doing. This is the sādhana mārga—the path to perfection.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Hinduism,Karma,Sadhana|2012	We don’t learn yoga. We mature into it. We don’t learn meditation. We awaken into it. You can teach meditation, you can teach yoga, but it’s all just words unless the individual is mature and awake on the inside.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Meditation|2013	In today’s world most people have to be stimulated by competition to produce anything worthwhile, even if that means hurting other people. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|2014	Those who perform sādhana draw on the forces of the soul to move the forces of the world and make a difference.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|2015	The vānaprastha āśrama, age forty-eight to seventy-two, is a very important stage of life, because that is the time when you can inspire excellence in the brahmacharya students and in the families, to see that their life goes along as it should.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|2016	The sannyāsa āśrama, beginning at seventy-two, is the time to enjoy and deepen whatever realizations you have had along the way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|2017	Traditionally, a Hindu home should be a reflection of the monastery that the family is attached to, with a regular routine for the mother, the father, the sons, the daughters, so that everyone is fulfilling their rigorous duties and sādhanas to the very best of their ability. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Facing Life,Meditation,Sadhana,Hinduism|2018	Some people are born peaceful because of merits attained in past lives. They are born helpful, and they are the uplifters of mankind. Others are born angry, scheming, conniving, resentful, and they are the doubters, the detractors, of mankind. But all have an equal place here on planet Earth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life|2019	By our karmas we are creating our future this very moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2020	As a family person, it is your dharma to serve society, uplift mankind and help relieve human suffering within your sphere of influence. But do not try to fix, or even entertain the desire to fix, that which you cannot fix, which is the karma, the action and reaction, of individuals who are going through the lower phases of life and must experience what they are experiencing 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/71	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2021	Meditation is a long journey, a pilgrimage into the mind itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation|2022	Generally we become aware that there is such a thing as meditation after the material world has lost its attraction to us and previous desires no longer bind us to patterns of fear, greed, attachment and ramification.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation|2023	The subconscious is nothing more than the accumulation of vibratory rates of experience encountered by awareness when it was externalized, a storehouse containing the past. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Facing Life,Karma|2024	Externalization of awareness results in one layer upon another layer of misunderstanding void of an inner point of reference. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Facing Life,Karma|2025	We have to reprogram the subconscious to change it, and not worry over the old impressions. We have to make this change in a very dynamic way by always remaining positive.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Facing Life,Karma|2026	Never use the word can’t, as it becomes very restrictive to the subconscious. If often used, it becomes almost an incantation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Facing Life,Wisdom|2027	As soon as we say, “I can’t,” all positive doors subconsciously close for us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life|2028	As soon as strong initiative is taken to change our nature toward refinement, a new inner process begins to take place.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life|2030	Deep meditation takes the power of our spiritual will, which is cultivated through doing everything we do to perfection, through meeting the challenges of our goals, and through its constant expression as we seek to do more than we think we can each day. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation,Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|2031	If we plan our meditation goals unrealistically, we create unnecessary problems.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation,Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|2032	In the early stages of meditation, it’s very difficult to sit without moving, because that has not been part of our lifestyle. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2033	If we plant a tree, we have to wait for it to grow and mature before we enjoy its shade. So it is in meditation. We make our plans for beginning the practices of meditation, then give ourselves enough time, several years, to fully adjust and remold the subconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation,Facing Life,Wisdom|2035	If we are impatient on the path, failure is in view.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life|2036	Of course, the results of meditation will themselves convince the subconscious of the benefit of inner sādhana as we bring forth perceptive insights, renewed energy, a happy and balanced life and spiritual attainment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation,Sadhana,Wisdom,Facing Life|2037	Everyone, whether they know it or not, is searching, trying to find out what life is all about. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life|2039	Establish a time for your meditations and meet those times strictly. There will be days when you just don’t feel like meditating. Good. Those are often the best days, the times when we make strong inner strides.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation,Facing Life,Wisdom|2041	The finest times to meditate are six in the morning, twelve noon, six in the evening, and twelve midnight. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation|2042	By sitting up straight, with the spine erect, we transmute the energies of the physical body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2044	Through regulation of the breath, thoughts are stilled and awareness moves into an area of the mind which does not think, but conceives and intuits.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation|2045	There are vast and powerful systems of breathing that can stimulate the mind, sometimes to excess. Deep meditation requires only that the breath be systematically slowed or lengthened. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Meditation|2046	Hurry is the age we want to bypass when we meditate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Meditation|2048	As we learn to breathe rhythmically and from the diaphragm, we also release tensions in the solar plexus.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Wisdom,Facing Life|2050	It is a fallacy to think you have to find a totally silent place before you can go within. When your senses are stilled, you don’t hear any sounds. You’re in a state of silence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation|2051	A powerful meditation fills and thrills us with an abundance of energy to be used creatively in the external world during the activities of daily life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/75	Meditation,Facing Life|2052	Throughout your inner investigations in meditation, cling to the philosophical principle that the mind doesn’t move. Thoughts are stationary within the mind, and only awareness moves. It flows from one thought to another, as the free citizen of the world travels through each country, each city, not attaching himself anywhere.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Facing Life|2053	If you just sit and breathe, the inner nerve system of the body of your psyche, your soul, begins to work on the subconscious, to mold it like clay. Awareness is loosened from limited concepts and made free to move vibrantly and buoyantly into the inner depths where peace and bliss remain undisturbed for centuries.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Facing Life|2054	As you sit to meditate, awareness may wander into past memories or future happenings. It may be distracted by the senses, by a sound or by a feeling of discomfort in the body. This is natural in the early stages. Gently bring awareness back to your point of concentration. Don’t criticize awareness for wandering, for that is yet another distraction.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Wisdom,Facing Life|2055	Distractions will disappear if you become intensely interested and involved in your meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Facing Life,Meditation|2056	Learn to work and work joyfully, for all work is good.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Facing Life,Wisdom|2057	Learn to be happy by seeking happiness, not from others but from the depths of the soul itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Wisdom,Facing Life|2058	After you have practiced meditation for some time, your inner vision will become keen and clear. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Facing Life,Wisdom|2059	Choose your friends carefully, but don’t get too closely attached. People clinging to people is one of the biggest deterrents to the life of meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Facing Life,Wisdom,Meditation|2060	The path for Śaivites is divided into four progressive stages of belief and practice called charyā, kriyā, yoga and jñāna. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism|2061	Keep your meditation abilities and activities to yourself. Don’t talk about inner things with anyone but your guru. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Guru,Wisdom,Facing Life|2062	The soul evolves through karma and reincarnation from the instinctive-intellectual sphere into virtuous and moral living, then into temple worship and devotion, followed by internalized worship or yoga and its meditative disciplines. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Karma,Wisdom,Facing Life,Worship,Meditation|2063	Union with God Śiva comes through the grace of the satguru and culminates in the soul’s maturity in the state of jñāna, or wisdom. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Guru,The Self,Siva|2064	Good interpersonal relationships help the meditator a great deal, and meditation helps keep those relations harmonious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Facing Life,Wisdom|2065	Śaivism values both bhakti and yoga, devotional and contemplative sādhanas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Worship,Meditation|2066	Tirumular’s monistic theism, or Advaita Īśvaravāda, reflected in Merging with Śiva, holds that evolution continues after earthly births until jīva becomes Śiva, the soul merges in perfect oneness with God, like a drop of water returning to the sea.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Hinduism|2067	We must conquer and harmonize all our relationships—not by working to change the other person, but by working with that other person within ourself, for we are only seeing in him what is in us. He becomes a mirror. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Wisdom,Facing Life|2068	We do not want to allow other people to affect our nerve system in a negative way, only in a positive way. That is why it is imperative for those on the path to be in good company.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Wisdom,Facing Life|2069	Beginning to meditate can be likened to starting a long journey. The destination and the means of travel must be known before setting out. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Wisdom|2070	Meditation is an art, a definite art, and well worth working for to become accomplished.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Wisdom|2071	Meditation is not easy, and yet it is not difficult. It only takes persistence, working day after day to learn to control and train the outer as well as the subtle, inner forces. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Wisdom|2072	We must realize that meditation is the disciplined art of tuning in to the deepest and most subtle spiritual energies. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation,Wisdom|2073	God Śiva is all and in all, one without a second, the Supreme Being and only Absolute Reality. He is Pati, our Lord, immanent and transcendent. To create, preserve, destroy, conceal and reveal are His five powers. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2074	God Śiva is a one being, yet we understand Him in three perfections: Absolute Reality, Pure Consciousness and Primal Soul. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2075	As Absolute Reality, Śiva is unmanifest, unchanging and transcendent, the Self God, timeless, formless and spaceless.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,The Self|2076	As Pure Consciousness, Śiva is the manifest primal substance, pure love and light flowing through all form, existing everywhere in time and space as infinite intelligence and power.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2077	As Primal Soul, Śiva is the five-fold manifestation: Brahmā, the Creator; Vishṇu, the Preserver; Rudra, the Destroyer; Maheśvara, the Veiling Lord, and Sadāśiva, the Revealer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2079	God Śiva is all and in all, great beyond our conception, a sacred mystery that can be known in direct communion. Yea, when Śiva is known, all is known.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2080	Everyone is on this planet for one purpose. That purpose will be known to you through your powers of meditation, through seeing and then finally realizing your Self at the very core of the universe itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation,The Self|2081	In Sanskrit, we express “Merging with Śiva” as Śivasāyujya, “Intimate union with the Divine.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Hinduism|2082	There are many faculties of the superconscious mind just waiting to be tapped by you. Only by tapping into and opening your superconscious, creative powers will you ever come to know and realize your real Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	The Self,Meditation|2083	Concentration has to be practiced and perfected before meditation can begin. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation|2084	Concentration is thinking about one definite thing for a given length of time until you begin to understand what you are thinking about.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	|2085	The next state of consciousness, which is attained when meditation has been perfected, is contemplation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Meditation|2086	When contemplation is sustained, the final step is samādhi, and that is finding or becoming your true Self, which is beyond all conditions of your mind, all phases of consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	The Self|2087	Śiva is the life of the life of all sentient and insentient beings, the sea of prāṇa, ever emanating, mysteriously, from the All of the Allness of His mystery Being, by which all life exists and all happenings happen. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,The Self|2089	Subconscious is yesterday, superconscious is immediate, now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	Facing Life,Meditation|2090	It is from the satguru’s constant, silent emanation that the śishya thrives, as do flowering trees, bushes and vines thrive and grow from the sun’s silent rays and the occasional showers of rain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Guru|2091	Only after you have attained samādhi can you answer the question “Who am I?” from your own experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/79	The Self|2092	Yes, the soul, jīva, encased in five bodies, is indeed merged into the emanator, preserver and absorber of the inner and outer universes as simply as a drop of water merges into the ocean, never to be found again. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2093	Three words from my satguru: “Follow inner orders.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Wisdom,Guru|2094	The experience of Satchidānanda, the all-pervasive essence of prāṇa, can be had through bhakti yoga, total prapatti. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Worship|2095	In prostrating the physical body before the icons of God, Gods and guru, energy goes into the head. It goes up from the mūlādhāra. It goes up from the soles of the feet. That is total surrender, and in the aftermath one feels a oneness with the universe. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Worship,Gods,Meditation|2096	Oneness is a captivation of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Facing Life|2097	The soul seeks something more than attachments to people, places and things, and when released from people, places and things through inharmonious disasters becomes its own essence, its all-pervasiveness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	|2098	Five, six, eight thousand years ago, Indian society developed over long centuries to a maturity sufficient to bring forth from the inner of the inner, the core of knowledge itself, the Vedas, four in number, called śruti, meaning revealed by God, not composed by man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,Siva|2099	Our scriptures tell us the Self is timeless, causeless, spaceless, beyond mind, form and causation. It is what it is, to be realized to be known. It is the fullness of everything and the absence of nothing. Therefore, it is not a void. Therefore, it is not an intellectual understanding, and therefore it is not all-pervasive, for there is nothing to pervade. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Hinduism,The Self|2100	This is why Śaiva Siddhānta is so great—you move toward God; God moves toward you. You look at God; God looks toward you more graciously, more intently. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2101	The Divine comes quickly when the carnal is transmuted into its essence. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2102	You take one step toward God, and He immediately, in the flash of a blink, takes nine toward you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva|2103	In Śaiva Siddhānta, God is the devotee, and He experiences Himself within Himself in His devotee. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	Siva,Hinduism|2105	The mind cannot realize the Self. Awareness cannot realize the Self. Consciousness cannot realize the Self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|2106	There can be no name for the Self. The mind cannot realize the Self. Awareness cannot realize the Self. Consciousness cannot realize the Self. To name it is to disqualify it into form.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|2107	The mind cannot realize the Self. Awareness cannot realize the Self. Consciousness cannot realize the Self. To name it is to disqualify it into form. This is why in the incomparable Shūm language it has no name, only īmkaīf, awareness aware of itself dissolving. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/12	The Self|2108	Man is not man, man is God, and the inherent nature of his soul is divine, existing in perfect oneness with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/18	Siva|2110	The Self, Paraśiva, can be realized only when the devotee turns away from the world and enters the cave within as a way of life through initiation and under vows. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	The Self|2112	While living in a normal agitated state of fears, worries and doubts, seeing the deeper truths is impossible. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|2113	We must live in the now to follow the path to enlightenment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|2114	In the lower realms of the mind, where time and space seem very real, we are worried about the past or concerned about the future.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom,Facing Life|2115	On this path, you don’t have to be a great ṛishi or a highly trained yogī. You don’t have to be a great philosopher. You don’t have to know Sanskrit. Just love God, which is the Life of the life within everyone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Worship,Siva|2116	To realize that God is the Light of the light within everyone, you have to be very simple, very uncomplicated, so that obvious realization can manifest through your conscious mind, through your subconscious mind, through your superconscious mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva,Wisdom|2117	It’s very simple: the energy within our body is the same energy that pervades the universe, and it’s all emanating right out of Lord Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva,Wisdom,Facing Life|2120	The path of Śaiva Siddhānta, as you all know, is a very simple path. It’s the path of love, a path of devotion, which makes you want to be self-disciplined, because to maintain a feeling of love all the time, you have to be self-disciplined.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Hinduism,Worship|2123	Thoughts on the inside of you—they’re not real, they’re always changing. Feelings on the inside of you—they’re not real, they’re always changing. Śiva on the inside of you is right there—never changes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva|2124	Of course, if you love Śiva, obviously you have to love everyone else. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva|2125	Love brings forgiveness. Love brings understanding. Love brings feeling.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Wisdom|2126	All Śaivites of the world love Śiva. They love each other, and they love the Vaishṇavites, the Śāktas, the Smārtas, the tribal Hindus and everyone in the world, because Śiva’s energy is working through everyone in the entire world—plants, trees, animals, fish, birds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/27	Siva,Hinduism|2127	The primal life force ever resident within the body, emotions and mind of man is, when used or allowed to function, what I term willpower. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	|2128	Willpower and the primal life force deep within body, emotion and mind are, in fact, one and the same—that willpower, individual awareness and life force, their habits and usages, are but various aspects.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	|2129	The wise parent teaches the culture and etiquette of the household and the community at large, ever endeavoring to bring forth the inner knowledge within the child as to the wise use of his willpower, guiding him carefully away from impulsive, willful behavior so that, little by little, he becomes responsible for the action he causes, as well as its reactions. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Wisdom,Facing Life|2131	It is through the study of rāja yoga, while always holding a silent overview as to what you are learning and how it relates to your particular life patterns, that you will come to know that an inner change is taking place. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Meditation|2132	There are basically two aspects to the force of willpower. One controls our external life in the world and with those about us. The other controls our internal life, strivings and personal spiritual disciplines, or sādhanas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Sadhana|2133	Once awareness has attained individuality and the devotee becomes the onlooker rather than identifying with what he looks upon, then he becomes full of the substance of the totality of the primal force which he experiences as willpower and is able to use this willpower in his daily life, which he experiences as awareness flowing through the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Wisdom,Facing Life|2134	Hold your center. Find the place within you that has never ever changed, that’s been the same for many lives, that feeling that has been the same within you since you were a little child up to this very time. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2135	Find the place within you that has never ever changed, that’s been the same for many lives, that feeling that has been the same within you since you were a little child up to this very time. Find that! Catch that vibration, and you’ve caught the vibration of the soul and identified it to your intellectual mind and your instinctive area of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2136	Say to yourself, “There’s something within me that never changes, no matter what happens.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2137	Work on the analogy that if your foot hurts, your head doesn’t hurt. If you have a pain in your stomach, it doesn’t mean that you have a pain in your hand. In the very same way, if your emotions are upset and you’re suffering, there’s an area within you that’s calm, peaceful, dynamic, vibrant, watching. That’s the body of the soul. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2138	Find that within you that has never changed, never will change, cannot change	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2140	Each time you have unwound the emotional patterns and the intellectual patterns of an experience, you’ve graduated out of that classroom and you’re on to greater and fuller experiences in this lifetime.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2141	If you would like to live a lifetime where you have no experiences at all, because you don’t like experiences—you’ve had a lot of experiences that have been distasteful to you—you cannot do it on this planet. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom,Karma|2142	The core of you is the observer of all experience of the emotional, the instinctive, the intellectual areas of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2143	Be That which never changes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation,Siva,The Self|2144	When we become this spiritual body and grasp that infinite intelligence of it, we’re just in a state of pure consciousness and we come into the clear white light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Meditation|2145	So, that is the path: experience, harnessing the reactions to experience, becoming the body of the soul, merging that body with the physical body after the instinctive and intellectual elements have been harmonized, coming into the clear white light, and then the realization of the Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Karma,Facing Life,Meditation,Wisdom,The Self|2146	Become acquainted with the awareness, that one beautiful, pure element of the soul, your superconscious body, which is easily found and easily discovered by simply closing your eyes and opening them and saying “I’m aware,” not necessarily of what you are aware of. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life|2147	Awareness is closely identified to the realms of sight—hearing, of course, too, but more predominantly sight.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life|2148	As awareness expands and as awareness contracts, we find that we have power over awareness. It merely becomes a tool. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life|2149	The underlying power of awareness is the blissful state of the spiritual body of man, pure consciousness, the central source of all energies, in its blissful, calm state. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Meditation|2150	If we look at the past as a catalog and the future as a planning book, and now as the only reality of time, we have dodged the past and we have dodged the future, because we have brought them both into the eternity of the moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2151	The mystic doesn’t go into the future and live emotionally experiences that may or may not happen to him. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2153	The mystic remains in the present, right now, using the catalog of the experiences of the past and a planning book for his future. This makes him wise, for intellect when it is correctly used at the right time is wisdom. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2154	Holding the eternity-of-the-moment feeling and the feeling of the being within that has never changed, finally you don’t even say it’s a being within. That in itself is duality. You just identify it as you, an immortal being who’s lived for thousands of years, which never changes except it unfolds more, and it lives now. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2155	The past and the future are only intellectual concepts that we live with and have been developed by man himself in that particular area of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2156	Life is a series of decisions. One decision builds into another.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2157	To make a good decision, we have to again bring our total awareness to the eternity of the moment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom,Meditation|2158	 If we project ourselves into the future to try to make a decision, we do not make a decision with wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2159	If we project ourselves into the past and in that way formulate our decisions, again they are not necessarily wise decisions, for they are decisions made through the powers of the intellectual or the instinctive area of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2160	The best decisions come to us when we hold the consciousness of the eternity of the moment and go within ourself for the answer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2161	The best rule in making a decision is: when in doubt, do nothing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2164	Good, positive decisions bring good, positive actions and, of course, positive reactions. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2165	Decisions that are not well worked out—we jump into experiential patterns haphazardly or emotionally—bring reactions of an emotional nature that again have to be lived through until we cease to be aware of them and experience them emotionally.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2166	Each time we have a decision to make, it’s a marvelous test in this classroom of experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2167	We can make a good decision if we approach it in the eternity of the moment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2169	There are no bad decisions. If we make a decision that is different than what we would make in the eternity of the moment—we make it through the instinctive area of the mind or the intellectual area of the mind—we’re not sure, totally, of ourself. We do not have enough information to make a good, positive decision.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2170	So, when in doubt in making a decision, that’s the time to know we have to collect up more information, think about it more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2171	Each decision is the foundation for the next series of experiences. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2172	When you are in a sequential series of experiential patterns, you are not making decisions at that time. Only when one experiential pattern has come to an end, and you’re ready for a new set of experiences in certain areas of your life, those are the times when you make new decisions. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Karma,Wisdom,Facing Life|2173	Weigh carefully each decision, because that is the rudder that guides your ship through the whole pattern of life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2174	Think it over carefully. Go in for intuitive guidance. And nobody knows better than yourself, your own superconscious being, what is to be the next set of experiential patterns for you to go through in your quest for enlightenment. It’s all based on decisions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2175	Don’t expect someone to make decisions for you. They are second-hand, not the best.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2176	Others maybe can give a little bit of advice or supply a different perspective or added information for you to make a better decision. But the decision you make yourself in any matter is the most positive, most powerful one, and should be the right one. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2177	The decision you make yourself in any matter is the most positive, most powerful one, and should be the right one. Do it from the eternity of the moment. That is the state of awareness to hold. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2178	We can learn by observing other people, the decisions they have made, the reactions and experiential patterns that followed. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2179	The first faculty of the expression of the inner being of your immortal soul is the great power of observation, to learn through observation, as your individual awareness detaches itself from that which it is aware of.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2180	You have tremendous powers of observation, for you are a free spirit. You’re just here on this planet to observe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom|2181	You’re just here on this planet to observe. And through your powers of observation you can go through the experiential patterns of other people by observing what they’re going through without having to go through them yourself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Karma,Facing Life,Wisdom|2183	Living by basic principles keeps awareness clean-cut, pure, direct and positive, out of the areas of the mind that are confused, unwholesome, unhealthy—areas that react back upon the nerve system of the physical nature. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2184	When we are clean-cut, our perceptions are precise. We make our decisions from an up-down point of view, and our path through life is guided by each decision that we make.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Facing Life,Wisdom|2185	When we make a decision, it has its reaction. If we do not make a decision, that has a reaction, too, for then decisions are made for us by circumstance, other people, situations or confusion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2187	When we become accustomed to making one decision after another from an up-down point of view, our lives are guided in a systematic, positive, clean-cut, beautiful way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2189	Basic principles for a good foundation in our lives can be established through consistency. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2190	The consistency in approach to what we are doing—a good habit pattern in living our life, as we approach our inner life, the understanding of our inner life, the study of it and the experience of it—has to be on a day-to-day basis.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2191	Developing a contemplative lifestyle that is sensible, that is positively worked out, and programming that into our complete pattern of daily life gives us a foundation strong enough to face decisions and the ensuing experiences and the reaction to those experiences in a way that they enhance our spiritual un­fold­ment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Karma|2193	To develop a whole new lifestyle takes thought. Our desire has to be transmuted into doing that.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2194	In the ordinary lifestyle of human consciousness, our desires generally are for things, for emotional experiences, for intellectual knowing. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2196	We have to organize the tremendous power of desire so that it’s transmuted, and we desire the realization of the Self more than anything else. Then you’ll have enough desire left over to get things, to get happiness and to get all the getting that humans want. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,The Self|2199	All the accumulative experiences have brought you to the point where you are now, ready to turn inward and realize your infinite being. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2200	Always try to remember the reason why you are here. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life|2202	When we’re in the superconscious area of the mind, awareness is detached from that which it is aware of. We see ourselves as the traveler traveling through all areas of the mind, not getting stuck in any one area.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2203	Then we’re here to go in, to take awareness off the surface of the Earth into outer space, or out of the instinctive and intellectual areas of the mind, into pure superconsciousness, into the clear white light, so it permeates every cell of the body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2204	We’re here to realize the Self, to have that one dramatic experience where everything that we thought was things is turned upside down, and our whole perspective afterwards changes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	The Self,Wisdom,Facing Life|2206	You are here for Self Realization, walking on this planet. Get it. Direct all your energies toward it, and then the tremendous power of desire will be for the one goal, not for the many goals toward which desires usually flow. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/35	The Self,Wisdom,Facing Life|2208	Yogaswami commanded all to seek within, to know the Self and see God Śiva everywhere and in everyone.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/7	The Self,Siva,Meditation|2218	It is no accident that you have found this book and the treasures it contains. It’s all part of the divine dance of destiny.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	|2221	Dancing with Śiva! What an extraordinary expression of our closeness to God, our creative interplay with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2223	The Cosmic Dance describes the Hindu view of existence, from the first thunder of the drum in His right hand announcing the Beginning, to the final all-consuming flames in His left hand pronouncing the End, which but heralds a new Beginning.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2224	Thus, dancing with Śiva is everything we do, everything we think and say and feel, from our seeming birth to our so-called death. It is man and God forever engaged in sacred movement.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2226	What stops you from flowing with cosmic forces and becoming one with life’s ocean of eternal bliss? Is it not attachment that keeps us clinging to the bank of the river?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2228	All of the personalities we know and the various material objects we are clinging to keep us holding tightly to the banks of life’s cosmic river. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2229	We are fighting against life’s currents when we allow ourselves to become attached. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2230	Think today about the personal experiences in your lifetime and clearly view just how often you cling to the banks of life’s river by attaching yourself to personalities and possessions. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2231	Have you ever stopped to think that we even become attached to things that we do not like and to the things that we have done against our better judgment?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2233	We become attached because we do not stop to understand that each of those experiences that conceived the attachment was just a boulder, a waterfall or an old tree trunk blocking one of the little rivulets as it tried to merge with the great stream ever merging itself into the ocean.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2234	Meditate on a river. Follow it as a visual image from its source to the end where it merges into the sea. You can now clearly see where you have been clinging to the bank of life’s river. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Meditation|2236	Looking at attachment, we see how it holds the mind down, how it submerges personality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2238	When you absorb the power of the spirit through the body, you will be able to feel it flowing through your most subtle nerves. This vibrant spiritual force within you, vibrating through every cell of the body, quieting the emotions and bringing the mind into effortless concentration, is born of affectionate detachment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Meditation,Facing Life|2239	Affectionate detachment is stronger than any attachment could possibly be, because attachment is created through unfulfilled desire, salted and peppered with fear. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2240	Fear of loss, fear of the unexpected, fear that life may not have much more to offer than what has already been offered, fear of old age, fear of harm, fear of accident—these are the fears which salt and pepper the unfulfilled desires. This is attachment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2241	To be affectionately detached—that is a power. That is a wisdom. That is a love greater than any emotional love, a love born of understanding, a love that merges you into the river of life and allows actinic force to flow within you so that you realize God. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2243	We all still have those little attachments—the good ones, the need for love, acceptance and security. These attachments form the positive aspects of the subconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2244	We want to free ourselves of all negative attachments, then use the subconscious positively, as a powerhouse directed by our superconsciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2245	There is a great wisdom in cultivated affectionate detachment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2246	Let go of the past. Let go of the future. Be a being right now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2247	Being detached does not mean running away from life or being insensitive. It makes us extremely sensitive. When we have the ability to let go, we are warmer, more friendly, more wholesome, more human and closer to our family and friends.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2248	I liken the subconscious mind to a basement. Those of you who have lived in the same house for a number of years have observed the following: as life progresses in the home, old things make way for the new, and the old things invariably are put into the basement. The basement is likened to the subconscious mind; the main floor, to the conscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2249	Our subconscious basement is created first through association with our immediate friends and family and the interrelated strains, tensions, misunderstandings, joys, pleasures, happy memories and sorrows.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2250	When we are not harboring negative attachments to anything that happened twenty or thirty years ago, thus creating tensions in our body and confusion in our mind, the subconscious becomes a powerhouse. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2251	In practicing affectionate detachment, we are learning to live in the here and now, right in the moment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2253	If someone who is close to you does not understand your inner nature, you do not understand your inner subconscious yourself. Why? Because you have only intellectually grasped certain things; you have not fully realized these concepts. He, the friend, as a reflection of yourself, therefore, will not quite grasp your studies or your concepts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2254	As soon as you understand yourself, by having purified yourself, you can explain your realization to your friends in a way they will understand.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2255	When explaining yoga teachings, use common examples like the following: “If you plant a seed and water it, you will eventually give birth to the flower.” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2256	Talk about the mind and how it can be opened up through yoga techniques of concentration and meditation, and you’ll become a great missionary of Hindu Dharma and do much for yourself as well as others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2257	Those who say “Well, nobody understands me. I feel all alone on the path” are going through a period in which they have memorized everything but understand very little and therefore cannot explain or convince their fellow man of these great truths due to the fact that their subconscious basement is still full. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2258	When we only learn intellectually and have not put dharma into practice, our subconscious is still cluttered by uncognized memories. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	|2259	You can plainly see that we have to go into the subconscious basement and straighten it out, if need be, by letting go and becoming free. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2260	If we were to straighten out the subconscious basement too fast, that would not be good. It would be going against a natural law. It would be like pouring hot water on plants, as they do commercially, to make them bloom quickly. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2261	We must not force natural laws, so we take time in our spiritual un­fold­ment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Wisdom,Facing Life,Sadhana|2263	Let us not worry about the past ever again. Do not even think about the past.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2264	Face everything that comes up in the light of the present, not in the darkness of the past. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2265	Be like the river water. Water flows freely anywhere, easily finding its way around rocks and trees.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2267	Watch your thinking and be careful of your thoughts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2268	Judge every action that you make, judge every word you speak, with this law: “Is it true? Is it kind? Is it helpful? Is it necessary?” 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2269	Also, dance is the only creative act in which there is perfect oneness of the creator and his creation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	|2272	One cannot separate the dancer from dancing, just as one cannot separate God from the world or from ourselves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2274	Of special meaning is the place where Śiva dances: in the chitsabhā, the hall of consciousness. In other words, it happens within each of us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2276	Become your own kind judge and make each second a day of judgment, for each second is really a day if you live life fully. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2278	Be free from life’s attachments and don’t allow any more negative attachments to occur in your life. Loosen yourself—be free. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2279	Attachments bring all sorts of complications. Freedom brings no complications at all. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2281	Become affectionately detached and manifest a greater love through action. Selfless service to mankind makes you free in the world of mortals.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2282	Measure yourself objectively with the river of life and merge with it into the sea of life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2283	Let your service to mankind begin at home and radiate out to the world. Begin at home, with those closest to you, before venturing out among friends and strangers.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2284	 Let your service to mankind begin at home and radiate out to the world. Begin at home, with those closest to you, before venturing out among friends and strangers. Let your example be your first teaching.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2285	Be free from the past; abide in the present; detach yourself from the future; and live in the eternal now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2286	Close your eyes and visualize a river flowing into the sea, and see yourself holding on to the bank of the river, and the river flowing on past you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2287	Now let go of the bank of the river and flow down with the river and merge into the sea of life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2288	Close your eyes and visualize a river flowing into the sea, and see yourself holding on to the bank of the river, and the river flowing on past you. Now let go of the bank of the river and flow down with the river and merge into the sea of life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2289	Feel yourself, right at this instant, living in the here and now. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2290	Holding on to the river bank, we hold the consciousness of time and space. Holding on to the banks of the river of life is to recreate within you fear, worry, doubt, anxiety and nervousness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2291	Detach yourself from the banks of the river and again be free. Love the banks as you pass, with a love born of understanding, and if you have no understanding of the bank, study your attachments until you do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2292	Learn to concentrate the mind so that you can study not from books, but from observation, which is the first awakening of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Sadhana|2293	Learn to study by practice. Learn to study by application.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Sadhana|2294	Become a student of life and live life fully, and as you merge into the sea of actinic life, you will realize that you are not your mind, your body or your emotions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2295	Learn to study by practice. Learn to study by application. Become a student of life and live life fully, and as you merge into the sea of actinic life, you will realize that you are not your mind, your body or your emotions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2296	Become a student of life and live life fully, and as you merge into the sea of actinic life, you will realize that you are not your mind, your body or your emotions. You will realize that you are the complete master of your mind, your body and your emotions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life|2297	The cosmos is perfect, you know. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Wisdom|2299	There is a sacred practice you should perform to keep flowing beautifully with the river of life. It will be a challenge to discipline yourself to set aside the time, but it will benefit you. You must sit by a rolling river and listen to the river saying “Aum Namaḥ Śivāya, Śivāya Namaḥ Aum,” as its water runs over the rocks. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Sadhana|2300	You must sit by a rolling river and listen to the river saying “Aum Namaḥ Śivāya, Śivāya Namaḥ Aum,” as its water runs over the rocks. Listen closely to the water connecting to the rocks, and you will hear the sacred mantra of life, “Aum Namaḥ Śivāya.” Relax into the sounds the river is chanting and try to be in tune with the perfect universe. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Facing Life,Sadhana|2302	God Śiva is among the most mysterious, complex, compassionate and profound conceptions of the one Supreme Being to be found in the religions of mankind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva,Hinduism|2303	He [God Siva] is Creator, Preserver and Destroyer of all existence, the Cosmic Dancer who animates the universe from within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2304	He is Creator, Preserver and Destroyer of all existence, the Cosmic Dancer who animates the universe from within. He is pure love, light, energy and consciousness. He is the timeless, formless and spaceless Absolute Reality, Paraśiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva|2306	Those who worship the great God Śiva are Śaivites, and their religion is called Śaivite Hinduism.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva,Hinduism|2307	Unlike the second major Hindu faith, Vaishṇavism (which is strongly dualistic), Śaivism adds a meditative, yogic emphasis to a bhakti path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Siva,Meditation,Worship|2309	Unlike Advaita Vedānta, Śaivism is strongly devotional and theistic, believing in a one true God who is Personal Lord and Creator.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism,The Self|2310	The term “monistic theism” defines the essential resolution of duality and nonduality which typifies Śaivism’s philosophical stance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2312	Scholars tell us that Śaivite Hinduism is mankind’s oldest religion, the venerable Sanātana Dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2315	Yet, sacred writings and legend tell us that there never was a time on the Earth when Śaivism did not exist.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2317	Ten of the eleven great religions existing today have a beginning in history, a birth date before which they did not exist. All other religions and faiths were founded by men. Not Śaivism. It had no beginning. It can have no end.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2319	Through history Śaivism has given rise to other faiths, such as Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism, as well as to a multitude of sects within Hinduism itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2320	One out of every six people on the Earth is a Hindu, and recent studies show that Hinduism is among the fastest-growing faiths on the planet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2321	Through history Śaivism has given rise to other faiths, such as Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism, as well as to a multitude of sects within Hinduism itself. This oldest of religions is also among the largest. One out of every six people on the Earth is a Hindu, and recent studies show that Hinduism is among the fastest-growing faiths on the planet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2323	Each Śaivite is unique, yet all seek the same things in life: to be happy and secure, to be loved and appreciated, to be creative and useful. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2325	Śaivite Hinduism has an established culture which fulfills these essential human wants and helps us to understand the world and our place in it. To all devotees it gives guidance in the qualities of character which are so necessary in spiritual life—patience, compassion for others, broadmindedness, humility, self-confidence, industriousness and devotion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|2327	Śaivism centers around the home and the temple.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism,Worship|2330	Śaivite worship is more individual than congregational, each approaching God directly.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Worship,Hinduism|2332	It is imperative at this time in our history—when the world, our Earth, is on the brink of an inner and outer space age—that we continue to value and learn from ancient Hindu wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism,Facing Life|2334	While other religions are precisely defined by explicit and often unyielding beliefs, Hinduism condones no such constraints.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2335	For the Hindu, intuition is far more important than intellect; experience supersedes dogma; and personal realization is held infinitely more precious than outer expressions or affiliations of faith.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2337	While other religions are precisely defined by explicit and often unyielding beliefs, Hinduism condones no such constraints. For the Hindu, intuition is far more important than intellect; experience supersedes dogma; and personal realization is held infinitely more precious than outer expressions or affiliations of faith.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2338	Hindu religious philosophy is based on experience, on personal discovery and testing of things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2340	There are no heretics in Hinduism, for God is everywhere and in all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism,Siva|2343	Hinduism, more than any other religion, has encompassed the full spectrum of philosophic positions, and to this day it venerates living exponents of each.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2346	This collection of customs and beliefs is not a detached, scholastic analysis of Hinduism, but a view from the inside, a view of the religion as Hindus themselves would wish their tradition honored and explained to others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2350	When you believe that God is everywhere, in all there is, wherever it is, it becomes impossible to hate or injure or seek to aggressively convert others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism,Siva|2352	Like Hinduism itself, this contemporary catechism is an ongoing revelation—a dance more than a doctrine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2354	To place Hinduism in the context of world thought, it is first important to note that it is a religion of the East.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2357	Whereas personal inner experience is the crux of religion from the Eastern view, belief and faith are valued most highly in the West.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2358	While Eastern religions are accommodating of other views, believing that all paths lead ultimately to God, Western religions tend to be dogmatic, stressing theirs as the one true God and the one true religion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2359	Whereas personal inner experience is the crux of religion from the Eastern view, belief and faith are valued most highly in the West. While Eastern religions are accommodating of other views, believing that all paths lead ultimately to God, Western religions tend to be dogmatic, stressing theirs as the one true God and the one true religion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2360	The soul, in its intelligence, searches for its Self, slowly ascending the path that leads to enlightenment and liberation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	The Self|2363	Hindus believe that all men and women are on this path and that all will ultimately reach its summit. It is a glorious and encouraging concept—that every single soul will reach Truth, moksha, none left to suffer forever for human frailties and faults.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	The Self,Hinduism|2364	Hinduism is our planet’s original and oldest living religion, with no single founder.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2365	For as long as man has lived and roamed across Earth’s land and water masses, breathed its air and worshiped in awe its fire, the Sanātana Dharma has been a guide of righteous life for evolving souls.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/11	Hinduism|2367	While India is home to 94% of the world’s nearly one billion Hindus, nearly 70 million are scattered widely across the globe.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/12	Hinduism|2368	Shortly into the twenty-first century, Hindu adherents will number over a billion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/12	Hinduism|2370	While Hindus believe many diverse and exotic things, there are several bedrock concepts on which virtually all concur.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2371	All Hindus worship one Supreme Reality, though they call it by many names, and teach that all souls will ultimately realize the truth of the Vedas and Āgamas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Siva|2372	Hindus believe that there is no eternal hell, no damnation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2374	All Hindus worship one Supreme Reality, though they call it by many names, and teach that all souls will ultimately realize the truth of the Vedas and Āgamas. Hindus believe that there is no eternal hell, no damnation. They concur that there is no intrinsic evil. All is good. All is God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Siva|2375	In contrast, Western faiths postulate a living evil force, embodied in Satan, that directly opposes the will of God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2377	Hindus believe that the universe was created out of God and is permeated by Him—a Supreme Being who both is form and pervades form, who creates, sustains and destroys the universe only to recreate it again in unending cycles. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Siva|2378	Hindus accept all genuine spiritual paths—from pure monism, which concludes that “God alone exists,” to theistic dualism, which asks, “When shall I know His Grace?”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Siva|2380	Hinduism’s three pillars are temple worship, scripture and the guru-disciple tradition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Worship,Guru|2381	Hinduism strongly declares the validity of the three worlds of existence and the myriad Gods and devas residing within them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Gods|2382	Love, nonviolence, good conduct and the law of dharma define the Hindu path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2383	Hinduism explains that the soul reincarnates until all karmas are resolved and God Realization is attained.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,The Self,Karma|2384	Festivals, pilgrimage, chanting of holy hymns and home worship are dynamic practices [in Hinduism].	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Worship|2385	Hindus wear the sectarian marks, called tilaka, on their foreheads as sacred symbols, distinctive insignia of their heritage.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2386	Hinduism is a mystical religion, leading devotees to personally experience its eternal truths within themselves, finally reaching the pinnacle of consciousness where man and God are forever one.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,The Self,Siva|2387	They [Hindus] prefer cremation of the body upon death, rather than burial, believing that the soul lives on and will inhabit a new body on Earth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2388	While Hinduism has many sacred scriptures, all sects ascribe the highest authority to the Vedas and Āgamas, though their Āgamas differ somewhat.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2389	Hinduism’s nearly one billion adherents have tens of thousands of sacred temples and shrines, mostly in India, but now located in every community of the global village where Hindus have settled.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2390	Its [Hinduism's] spiritual core is its holy men and women—millions of sādhus, yogīs, swāmīs, vairāgīs, saints and satgurus who have dedicated their lives to full-time service, devotion and God Realization, and to proclaiming the eternal truths of the Sanātana Dharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2391	Hindus believe in a one, all-pervasive Supreme Being who is both immanent and transcendent, both Creator and Unmanifest Reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Siva,The Self|2392	Hindus believe in the divinity of the Vedas, the world’s most ancient scripture, and venerate the Āgamas as equally revealed. These primordial hymns are God’s word and the bedrock of Sanātana Dharma, the eternal religion which has neither beginning nor end.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2393	Hindus believe that the universe undergoes endless cycles of creation, preservation and dissolution.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2394	Hindus believe in karma, the law of cause and effect by which each individual creates his own destiny by his thoughts, words and deeds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Karma|2395	Hindus believe that the soul reincarnates, evolving through many births until all karmas have been resolved, and moksha, spiritual knowledge and liberation from the cycle of rebirth, is attained. Not a single soul will be eternally deprived of this destiny.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Karma|2400	Many terms can be defined in various ways, according to one’s philosophical perspective. By studying the terms as defined in this Lexicon, one can better understand their meaning in the body of the text.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2401	One of the limitations we encountered [in writing this book] was how to speak of the genderless God without implying that the Divine is either man or woman. Working through the constraints of the English language, we just didn’t know what to do with the words he, she, him, her, hers and his in reference to God and the Gods.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Siva,Gods|2402	English seems to offer no reasonable way around the use of masculine pronouns, so, reluctantly, we have referred to God and Gods in mostly masculine terms. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Siva,Gods|2403	We have taught this wisdom for over forty years in many countries, and we know that it is competent to change the lives of people, to bring them closer to their inner Divinity, to strengthen husband-and-wife relationships, cement family unity and establish strong, unbreakable connections with God and the Gods.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Siva,Gods|2405	An ideal way to study the Catechism is to take one śloka and its accompanying bhāshya each day. Study it, meditate on it. Apply it to your own life. Then move on to the next. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2406	The twelve parts, called upanishads, in this catechism, one for each month of the year, may be used as lecture notes or personal study for the month. Each of the twelve is a completely different subject.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2407	The thirty-one chapters [of this book], called maṇḍalas, each containing five ślokas, may be studied one each day for a month and then repeated time and time again.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2408	Another way to study the book is the “subject study,” choosing concepts which interest you and following their threads throughout the book. For example, using the index, one could take the word soul and explore its various references—the soul’s creation, its evolution, old souls and young souls.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2410	The fifth way [to study this book] is to read and meditate on the profound Vedic verses, which are found, more than any other scripture, in this praśnottaram. They are as alive today as the day they were spoken thousands of years ago. Is it really what they say that stirs the higher consciousness, or is it what they do to the inner currents of the body as they stimulate spirituality?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2411	Another way [to study this book] is to simply read the book, cover to cover.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2412	A final way [to study], since this book has been magically impressed into the ākāśa, is to hold it in your hands and absorb its knowledge or put it under your pillow at night.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2415	As you proceed through Dancing with Śiva, Hinduism’s Contemporary Catechism, Hindu Dharma Samakālīna Praśnottaram, you will come to see that it contains a new presentation of very ancient knowledge.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2416	You will soon realize that, somewhere within you, you already know these truths.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2417	As you proceed through Dancing with Śiva, Hinduism’s Contemporary Catechism, Hindu Dharma Samakālīna Praśnottaram, you will come to see that it contains a new presentation of very ancient knowledge. You will soon realize that, somewhere within you, you already know these truths.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2418	You will soon realize that, somewhere within you, you already know these truths. You will find yourself traveling back in your memory, perhaps several lives, and remembering that you have studied them before in the same way that you are studying them now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism|2420	A new breed of souls is even now coming up in the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2425	So, proceed with confidence. Success is assured. You cannot fail if bhakti is integrated with jñāna, Siddhānta with Vedānta, Āgamas with Vedas, and Hindu Dharma with everyday life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Hinduism,Worship,Meditation,Wisdom|2426	Yea, this is the secure path, the safe path, leading to knowledge, experience and recognition, then realization, of your true, divine, eternal Self.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	The Self,Hinduism|2427	Awake, arise and stop not until the goal is reached!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Facing Life|2428	It is no accident that you have found this book and the treasures it contains.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	|2430	Love and blessings to you from this and inner worlds.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/13	Guru|2431	The Master Course trilogy is a detailed summary and explanation of ashṭāṇga yoga according to the traditions of our lineage, the Nandinātha Sampradāya’s Kailāsa Paramparā.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2432	Ashṭāṅga yoga, also called rāja yoga, has eight successive steps, each one dependent upon the one that precedes it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2433	These eight successive steps are yama (restraint), niyama (observance), āsana (posture), prāṇāyāma (breath control), pratyāhāra (sense withdrawal), dhāraṇā (concentration), dhyāna (meditation) and samādhi (contemplation).	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2434	Often the uninformed prefer to start on their spiritual path at steps seven and eight, ignoring the other six, and more than often wonder why no immediate and lasting results are obtained.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2438	Dancing with Śiva, the first book of the trilogy, lays out the philosophical, Vedic-Āgamic beliefs, attitudes and expectations of the Śaivite Hindu religion, which are so necessary to understand, adopt and uphold in order to make true progress in the areas discussed in the other two books.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2439	Living with Śiva, the second book of the trilogy, concerns itself with Śaivite lifestyle, culture, family life, character-building and the overcoming of uncomplimentary habits that disturb others as well as oneself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2441	For the entire system of ashṭāṅga yoga to work, a firm philosophical-cultural foundation, as found in Dancing with Śiva and Living with Śiva, must be subconsciously accepted by the devotee as his own way of looking at and living life, relating it to experience, solving problems, approaching worship and so forth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Facing Life|2443	The Master Course trilogy is a daily, lifetime study for my devotees worldwide to be explored year after year after year, generation after generation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2444	Through great effort we have summarized this entire study of more than 3,000 pages into 365 Nandinātha Sūtras of four lines each that make up Part Four of Living with Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2445	The Master Course is a life-transforming study organized in 365 daily lessons. Devotees may begin at any time—and whatever time lesson one is begun is the most auspicious time—then continue right around the year until 365 lessons are complete.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2446	If you are ready to change your life, begin The Master Course today. If not, then perhaps tomorrow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	|2447	The Master Course is a life-transforming study organized in 365 daily lessons. Devotees may begin at any time—and whatever time lesson one is begun is the most auspicious time—then continue right around the year until 365 lessons are complete. If you are ready to change your life, begin The Master Course today. If not, then perhaps tomorrow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2448	There are three ways to study The Master Course: 1) Internet Study; 2) Home Study; and 3) Formal Correspondence Study.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism|2449	 Śiva is the ancient name of the Self, God. Mystically, Śi is the Absolute state. Va is the All-Pervading Self flowing through the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Siva,The Self|2450	It is only when the devotee, through yoga disciplines under the direction of his satguru, traverses the thought strata of his mind that he begins to experience what he has been learning philosophically.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Guru,Sadhana|2451	The instinctive impulses are from us and from others, and mainly concern our body and baser emotions. These are easy to distinguish, as these impulses provide most of the daily activities. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Facing Life|2452	Beginning the sādhana, and the continued practice, is the first sign that Śiva’s will is being done in the aspirant’s life. New energy abides within him because of the transmutation from the base to the Divine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Siva,Sadhana,Facing Life|2453	By being more aware of the inner processes and impulses of willpower than the outer configurations of other people, their thoughts and feelings, you will soon live in the world contentedly and come to know the Śi, the Absolute Self beyond all form, time and causation, and the Va, the All-Pervading Self, as actinic energy permeating all form	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	The Self,Siva,Facing Life|2454	The Internet Study [of the Master Course] can be begun immediately at any time. The current lesson of the day is found on the Internet at www.himalayanacademy.com in the The Master Course Daily Lesson section. Or you can receive it via e-mail by visiting www.himalayanacademy.com/email-news.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana|2459	If you study these lessons each day for a year, you will have completed a profound sādhana, a personal odyssey into the interior of you and on into the depths of Hinduism, a practice sufficient to transform your life by transforming the way you look at life itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana,Facing Life|2460	The Master Course trilogy of Dancing, Living and Merging with Śiva can be enjoyed by the entire family year after year after year, studied personally and read aloud at breakfast, dinner or in the shrine room after the morning pūjā.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana|2463	The Master Course Supervised Study is for those who seek a practical, action-oriented  approach.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Sadhana,Facing Life|2469	There is a strong tendency when a student first begins meditation to want to give up external things, to give up work and devote more time to making his meditation the perfect thing. But this is not the spirit of The Master Course.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Facing Life,Meditation,Hinduism|2471	The thrust of The Master Course Correspondence Study is to improve all aspects of one’s life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Facing Life|2475	It comes down to readjusting our thinking and making our point of reference the reality within ourselves instead of the reality and permanence of the external world of things, forms and fancy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Meditation,Facing Life|2477	Once our whole philosophical structure is in line with Śaiva Siddhānta thinking, it is easy to throw the mind into meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Meditation|2478	Then when we are working in our daily life, involved in external things and material affairs, the point of reference is that the energy within and the core of the energy and the Self itself are real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Hinduism,Facing Life,Meditation|2479	Once our whole philosophical structure is in line with Śaiva Siddhānta thinking, it is easy to throw the mind into meditation. Then when we are working in our daily life, involved in external things and material affairs, the point of reference is that the energy within and the core of the energy and the Self itself are real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Facing Life,Hinduism,Meditation,The Self|2481	The key is to put more energy into each activity you are engaged in.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Facing Life|2485	Having the Self as a point of reality reference and not the material things, with the life force constantly flooding through these nerve currents, you are actually seeing what you are doing as part of the cosmic dance of Śiva, as the energy of Śiva flows in and through you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	The Self,Siva,Facing Life|2488	You create the new habit patterns by doing everything as best you can, with as much forethought and as much energy as you can command.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/15	Facing Life|2491	Śiva Naṭarāja, the Lord of Dance, stands poised between unrestrained power and perfect equilibrium.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/17	Siva|2494	The cosmic dance of Śiva Naṭarāja is both symbol and reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2496	We are all dancing with Śiva this very moment and He with us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2497	The cosmic dance of Śiva Naṭarāja is both symbol and reality. It is the movement of creation, preservation and dissolution, the triad which taken together is the principle of māyā, God’s endless impulse, taking place within each of us and within every atom of the universe. We are all dancing with Śiva this very moment and He with us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2498	In the midst of His agitated dance [as Nataraja], God Śiva’s HEAD is balanced and still, His EXPRESSION serene and calm, in perfect equipoise as the unmoved Mover.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2499	His right EARRING, made of a snake, is masculine. His left, a large discus, is feminine. Together they symbolize the fact that Śiva is neither male nor female, but transcends both.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2500	God Śiva’s THIRD EYE is the eye of fire and symbolizes higher perception, extending throughout past, present and future.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2501	God Śiva’s HAIR is in the long untended locks of the ascetic, flying out energetically.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2502	Sādhana is performing the same discipline over and over and over again.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Sadhana|2504	Flow with the river of life and merge in Śiva’s ocean of oneness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/39	Siva,Facing Life|2505	The mystic sees his awareness as a ball of light, moving from one experience to another.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/42	Facing Life|2506	The average person who is not a mystic lives two-thirds in the external area of the mind and one-third within himself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2507	The mystic lives, and is taught to live, two-thirds within himself and only one-third in the external.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2509	The person who is not a mystic, living two-thirds in the external mind, says, “I am happy,” meaning, “I am aware of a state of mind called happiness, and I am in that state, so that is me.” Or, “I am unhappy. Unhappiness is me.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2510	The mystic living two-thirds within says to himself, “I am flowing through the area of the mind that’s always unhappy.” He doesn’t change; he is a pure state of awareness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2511	Visualize a little ball of light. We’ll call that man’s individual awareness, and that light is shining right out from his eyes, and this little ball of light is going through the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2512	Then there’s the area of the mind that is completely peaceful and has always been peaceful. No mood or emotion has ever been in it to ruffle it, because that’s the peaceful area of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Meditation|2514	Man knows where he is in the mind, but the first step in awakening on the path of enlightenment is to separate awareness from that which it is aware of. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Meditation|2515	The mystic knows he is not this body. He can even remember dropping off the body many, many different times, getting new bodies through the process of reincarnation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2516	We are not what we are aware of. We are separate from that which we are aware of. We are only flowing through these areas of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2517	We are separate from that which we are aware of. We are only flowing through these areas of the mind. If we live in San Francisco, we are not San Francisco. If we live in unhappiness, we are not unhappiness. That’s only one of the cities of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2518	As soon as we can understand awareness detached from that which it is aware of, we have a vibrant energy, a tremendous drive. A tremendous willpower is released from within us, and we live with the feeling that we can do anything that we want to do, almost as quickly as we want to do it. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2519	As soon as you find awareness totally identified with a subconscious area that has become conscious, immediately turn inward, detach awareness from that which it is aware of and just be pure energy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2520	Claim the being of yourself as you. You have enough knowledge now. You don’t have to discover the being of yourself and keep looking for it. Just be the being of yourself and travel through the mind as the traveler travels around the globe. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2522	Now, if we are sitting in a movie, and we are realizing that we are going through moods and emotions but we are not the moods and emotions that we are going through—all we are doing is being entertained by our senses—then that’s the mystic.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2523	As aspirants on the path, you have to live your life two-thirds within yourself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2524	When you are conscious of the thoughts that you don’t want to think, the emotions that you don’t want to feel, go deep within where they don’t exist.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2525	Take awareness to the central source of energy, right within the spine itself. Feel that energy flowing through the body, moving the muscles, enlivening the cells.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Meditation|2527	Immediately, when we begin to identify totally with our thoughts as being reality, then we begin to make mistakes. We are living two-thirds in the external world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2528	Regulate the breath throughout the day. Keep the spine always straight. Always sit up straight. As soon as the spine is bent, awareness is externalized. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life|2529	What’s the biggest barrier? Fear. Afraid of our secret thoughts, afraid of our secret feelings. What’s the biggest escape from fear? Go to the center, where energy exists, the energy that moves the life through the body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Meditation|2531	“Be renewed by a change of your mind.” Be renewed by releasing awareness from one area of the vast universe of the mind, drawing it back into its source and releasing it again, sending it to another of the vast areas of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Facing Life,Meditation|2532	The study of awareness is a great study. “I am aware.” The key to this entire study is the discovery of who or what is the “I am.” It is the key to the totality of your progress on the path of enlightenment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Hinduism,Facing Life,Meditation|2533	What is awareness? As you open your physical eyes, what is it that is aware of what you see?	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2534	What is awareness? Discover that. Go deep within it. Make it a great study. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2536	You have to discover what awareness is before you can realize the Self God. Otherwise, realization of the Self God is only a philosophy to you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,The Self|2537	Get acquainted with yourself as being awareness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,Facing Life|2540	Each individual awareness, ball of light, is encased in many bodies. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2542	Awareness is an extension of prāṇa from the central source, issuing energy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2543	Energy goes where awareness flows.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2544	When awareness focuses on relationships, relationships flow. When awareness focuses on philosophy, that unfolds itself. Ultimately, when awareness focuses on itself, it dissolves into its own essence. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2545	Energy goes where awareness flows. When awareness focuses on relationships, relationships flow. When awareness focuses on philosophy, that unfolds itself. Ultimately, when awareness focuses on itself, it dissolves into its own essence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2546	Consciousness and awareness are the same when awareness is totally identified with and attached to that which it is aware of. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2548	When awareness is detached from that which it is aware of, it flows freely in consciousness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2549	A tree has consciousness. Awareness can flow into the tree and become aware of the consciousness of the tree.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2550	Consciousness and mind are totally equated as a one thing when awareness and consciousness are a one thing to the individual. But when awareness is detached from that which it is aware of, it can flow freely through all five states of mind and all areas of consciousness, such as plants and the Earth itself, elements and various other aspects of matter.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2551	In Sanskrit we have the word chaitanya for consciousness, and for awareness it is sākshin, meaning witness, and for mind the word is chitta. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	|2552	Consciousness, mind, matter and awareness experience a oneness in being for those who think that they are their physical body, who are convinced that when the body ends, they end and are no more. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2553	We have three eyes. We see with our physical eyes and then we think about what we have seen. Going into meditation, we see with our third eye our thoughts.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2554	It is the control of the breath that controls the thoughts that emerge from the subconscious memory patterns.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,Facing Life|2556	When you are conscious that you are awareness, you are a free awareness, a liberated soul. You can go anyplace in the mind that you wish.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,Facing Life|2557	The quest is to keep traveling through the mind to the ultimate goal, merging with Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,Siva|2559	Turn awareness back in on itself and simply be aware that you are aware. Try to penetrate the core of existence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2560	Become conscious of energy within the physical body and the inner bodies, flowing out through the nerve system and drawing forth energy from the central source of the universe itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2562	Each time you become aware of something in the energy realm, be aware of being aware. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2563	Finally, you go beyond light. Finally, you go into the core of existence itself, the Self God, beyond the stillness of the inner areas of mind. That is the mission and that is what humanity is seeking—total Self-God Realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,The Self|2564	Self Realization is finding That which is beyond even superconsciousness itself, beyond the mind—timeless, causeless, spaceless. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	The Self|2565	After Self Realization, awareness has a new home. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	The Self|2567	 Before Self Realization, awareness was in the external mind trying to penetrate the inner depths. Then it would return to the external mind and again try to penetrate the within through the processes of meditation. After Self Realization, the whole process of the flow of awareness is reversed. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	The Self,Meditation,Facing Life|2568	Mind and consciousness are synonymous. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2570	We want to be able to flow awareness through any area of the mind consciously, at will, as we go in and in and in toward our great realization of the Self God, which is beyond mind, beyond time, beyond consciousness, beyond all form. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation,The Self|2572	When we sit, simply being aware of being aware, the currents of the body harmonized, the aura turns to streaks of light dashing out into the room, and we are sitting in our own perfect bliss, simply aware, intensely aware, of being aware.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	Meditation|2574	Arrive at the ultimate goal. Make it your journey, your quest. Want it more than life itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/43	The Self|2575	To the awakened mystic, there is only one mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2577	Man’s individual awareness flows through the mind as the traveler treads the globe. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2579	Before we meditate, we view the cycles of our life and erroneously conclude that the mind changes, that it evolves.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2580	We view joy one moment, and despair the next and, because we feel so different in these states, assume we have changed. We grow up and look back on our childhood and again see the appearance of change. Through meditation, however, we observe that we have not changed at all. Awareness becomes our real identity, and it is pure and changeless. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2581	Awareness becomes our real identity, and it is pure and changeless. It was the same at seven years of age as it is today. It is the same in happiness as it is in sadness. Pure awareness cannot change. It is simply aware. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2582	Pure awareness cannot change. It is simply aware. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2583	You are perfect at this very moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2584	You never were different, and you never will be. You are perfect at this very moment. Change is only a seeming concept created through false identification with the experiences we have in various areas of the one mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2585	Everything in the world and everything in the mind is as it should be, in a perfect state of evolution. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Wisdom|2586	We have to go in and in and in and reach an expanded state of awareness and gain that mountaintop consciousness where we perceive that there is no injustice in the world.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2588	There is not one wrong thing. All is in perfect order and rhythm in Śiva’s cosmic dance. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2589	Should we acquire the ability to identify as the experiencer instead of the experience, the true and valid nature of awareness and its patterns of movement in the mind become evident. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2591	The mind is vast in its combinations of time, space and form. It contains every vibration, from subtle to gross. Awareness is free to travel in the mind according to our knowledge, our discipline and our ability to detach from the objects of awareness and see ourselves as the experience of awareness itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2592	Awareness is free to travel in the mind according to our knowledge, our discipline and our ability to detach from the objects of awareness and see ourselves as the experience of awareness itself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2594	There are people with the ability to look back into the past and ahead to the future accurately and in detail. That feat is understood clearly in the light of awareness traveling through the mind. The entire mind exists right now—past and future included.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2595	The entire mind exists right now—past and future included.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2596	We have five states of mind—conscious, subconscious, sub of the subconscious, subsuperconscious and superconscious—and within each are hundreds and thousands of cities. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2597	In the subconscious area, the traveler can encounter fear, hatred, love and good memories. In the conscious-mind area he can experience business, human relationships and intellectual, social vibrations. In the superconscious area, there are even more regions, and he comes into visions, light, sound, overwhelming joy and peace.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2598	As we move through the mind, the mind stays the same, just as the world stays the same as the traveler moves from city to city.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2599	Fear does not disappear from the mind when we are blissfully fearless. Others still experience it. Our awareness has simply moved to a more refined area.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2600	We on the spiritual path must work hard at keeping ourselves detached from friends, places, habits. Only then can we keep awareness free enough to travel uninhibitedly through the sublime, inner areas of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2601	Observe when awareness gets so involved that it identifies with an experience. Then consciously tell yourself, “I am not fear. I am awareness flowing in the area of fear, and I can move into other areas at will.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2602	 Strive for that simple ability to detach awareness from that which it is aware of. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2603	Be renewed by a change of your mind. Be renewed by releasing awareness from one area of the vast universe of the mind, drawing it back into its source and releasing it again, sending it to another of the vast areas of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2605	Observation is the first faculty to appear in the awakening of the superconscious regions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2606	Observation, when perceptively performed, is cultivated by abstinence from excessive talk.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2608	Talk dissipates the energies of the aura and of the vital body of man.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life|2609	A mystic generally does not talk very much, for his intuition works through reason, but does not use the processes of reason.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life|2610	Any intuitive breakthrough will be quite reasonable, but it does not use the processes of reason. Reason takes time. Superconsciousness acts in the now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2611	Reason takes time. Superconsciousness acts in the now.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2612	All superconscious knowing comes in a flash, out of the nowhere.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2613	Intuition is more direct than reason, and far more accurate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2615	Begin to feel that observation is one of your finest faculties, one that you most cherish.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2617	Mentally say to yourself many times, “I have good observation. Therefore, I am superconscious.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2619	Remember, your powers of observation are cultivated by abstinence from excessive talk.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2621	Some people on the spiritual path cannot wait to talk about their meditations even before they come out of them. They really should stop doing this.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2623	Begin to feel that your intuition works rather rapidly and is generally very reasonable, but does not use the process of reason.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2624	To the awakened mystic, there is only one mind. There is no “your mind” and “my mind,” just one mind, finished, complete in all stages of manifestation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2625	Man’s individual awareness flows through the mind as the traveler treads the globe. Just as the free citizen moves from city to city and country to country, awareness moves through the multitude of forms in the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2627	Just as the free citizen moves from city to city and country to country, awareness moves through the multitude of forms in the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2628	 Awareness becomes our real identity, and it is pure and changeless. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2629	Awareness becomes our real identity, and it is pure and changeless. It was the same at seven years of age as it is today. It is the same in happiness as it is in sadness. Pure awareness cannot change. It is simply aware.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2630	Pure awareness cannot change. It is simply aware. Therefore, you are right now the totality of yourself. You never were different, and you never will be. You are perfect at this very moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2631	Change is only a seeming concept created through false identification with the experiences we have in various areas of the one mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2632	When you really want to reason something out, it may take a lot of time, but when you get an intuitive flash, it’s right there. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2633	You will find that reason and intuition agree. Intuition is more direct than reason. That is why you should always use intuition. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2634	Do not carry all of this around with you as knowledge in the intellect. It will burden your intellect, and soon you will have to forget it, because the subconscious will have more than it can handle of inner teaching.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Wisdom|2635	It takes a while to convince the subconscious that you are a spiritual being whose existence does not begin and end with this life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Facing Life|2637	The superconscious mind is the most wonderful area of the mind there is, although awareness is not always in it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation,Worship|2638	We are not always aware in the superconscious mind, because we are generally aware in the conscious mind, or aware of our own subconscious or that of another. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2640	When we feel as if we are living totally in the moment, as if there is no past and there never has been any past or future, we are becoming subconsciously certain we are an intense, vibrating entity of the eternal now. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2642	More real than a table, a chair, an automobile or a person sitting next to you is this feeling of being an intense sheath of energy right in the eternal moment, with no past, no future. This is superconsciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2643	When your awareness is in superconsciousness, you see yourself as pure life force flowing through people, through trees, through everything.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2644	I have seen myself, in a certain state of samādhi, as pure life force flowing through a jungle, through trees, through plants, through water, through air. That is superconsciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2646	When we look at a physical object and we begin to see it scintillating in light as it begins to become transparent, this is superconsciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2647	This is superconsciousness: when we can look at another person and know what he is thinking and how he is feeling and how his subconscious is programmed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2648	No technique can give you these experiences that you unfold into as you walk the path toward merger. You come right into them, and the experience is how you are.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2649	You see superconscious beings while in the superconscious area of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Facing Life,Meditation|2650	Being on the brink of Self Realization, having lost consciousness of the physical body and of being a mind, you are only conscious of a vast, bluish white light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	The Self,Meditation|2652	Occasionally in superconsciousness we can feel and actually inwardly see the inner body, the body of the soul, and we can feel this body inside the physical body. This is the body of light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Meditation|2654	We must acquire the best knowledge, the cream of all knowledge. This is the knowledge of the path to enlightenment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	Hinduism,Facing Life|2655	After Self Realization, you are looking at the film, the movie of the actors and actresses, including yourself, previously seen as real, being more subsuperconsciously conscious of the light projected on the back of the film than of the pictures displayed, which were seen as real before this awakening.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/47	The Self,Meditation,Facing Life|2656	An indomitable will is required to succeed on the upper reaches of the spiritual path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/50	Meditation,Facing Life|2657	Stress makes you strong, if it doesn’t kill you! 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life,Humor|2658	God Śiva’s hair is in the long untended locks of the ascetic, flying out energetically. On His hair are: the serpent Śeśanāga, representing the cycle of years; a SKULL, symbolizing Śiva’s power of destruction; the fifth-day CRESCENT MOON, symbolizing His creative power; and the Goddess Gaṅgā, India’s most sacred river, symbol of descending grace.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2659	God Śiva’s back left hand holds a blazing flame, the fire God Agni, symbolizing His power of destruction, saṁhāra, by which the universe is reabsorbed at the end of each cycle of creation, only to be recreated again by God Śiva. This hand represents NA in the Pañchākshara Mantra, Na-Ma-Śi-Vā-Ya.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2660	His [God Siva Nataraja's] planted foot stands for the syllable MA and symbolizes His concealing grace, tirodhāna śakti, which limits consciousness, allowing souls to mature through experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2661	Śiva dances upon the figure known as apasmāra, “forgetful or heedless,” who represents the soul bound by āṇava mala, the individuating veil of duality, source of separation from God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2662	His [God Siva Nataraja's] planted foot stands for the syllable MA and symbolizes His concealing grace, tirodhāna śakti, which limits consciousness, allowing souls to mature through experience. Śiva dances upon the figure known as Apasmāra, “forgetful or heedless,” who represents the soul bound by āṇava mala, the individuating veil of duality, source of separation from God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2663	Śiva dances upon the figure known as apasmāra, “forgetful or heedless,” who represents the soul bound by āṇava mala, the individuating veil of duality, source of separation from God. Apasmārapurusha looks up serenely at Lord Śiva’s raised foot, the ultimate refuge, release and destiny of all souls without exception.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2664	Lord Śiva’s left front hand, representing the syllable VĀ, held in the elephant trunk pose, gajahasta, points to His left foot, source of revealing grace, anugraha śakti, by which souls return to Him.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2665	Left and right back arms are balanced, as are creation and destruction.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2666	Śiva’s back right hand, standing for the syllable ŚI, holds the thin-waisted rattle drum, damaru, symbol of creation, which begins with soundless sound, Paranāda, from which arises the mantra Aum.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2667	Anava could seem like spirituality, but reality it’s only spirit duality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2668	The front right hand is raised in the gesture abhaya, “fear not,” symbolizing Śiva’s power of sṛishṭi, preservation and protection, and standing for the syllable YA.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2670	The front right hand [of God Siva Nataraja] is raised in the gesture abhaya, “fear not,” symbolizing Śiva’s power of sṛishṭi, preservation and protection, and standing for the syllable YA.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2671	Lord Śiva’s raised foot symbolizes His revealing grace, anugraha śakti, by which the soul ultimately transcends the bonds of āṇava, karma and māyā and realizes its identity with Him.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2672	Lord Śiva’s skin is a pinkish color. His body is smeared with white holy ash, vibhūti, symbol of purity. The blue throat represents His compassion in swallowing the deadly hālāhala poison to protect mankind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2673	He [God Siva Nataraja] wears a skull necklace, symbolizing the perpetual revolution of ages. The serpent Jahnuwi adorns His body, symbol of His identity with the kuṇḍalinī power, the normally dormant spiritual force within man coiled at the base of the spine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2674	The serpent Jahnuwi adorns His [God Siva Nataraja's] body, symbol of His identity with the kuṇḍalinī power, the normally dormant spiritual force within man coiled at the base of the spine. Raised through yoga, this force propels man into God Realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva,The Self|2675	Śiva wears a tiger skin, symbol of nature’s power.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2676	[Impertinent youth asks: "What would you say if I offered you an empty glass of water?" Gurudeva:] "Thank you very much, I'm not thirsty.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2677	Śiva wears a tiger skin, symbol of nature’s power. His sash, kaṭibhandha, is blown to one side by His rapid movement.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2678	The arch of flames, prabhāvali, in which Śiva dances is the Hall of Consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2680	Eat the rudraksha fruit to your heart’s content. [Commenting on the healthful, heart strengthening qualities of Eleocarpus ganitrus.]	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Facing Life|2681	The arch of flames, prabhāvali, in which Śiva dances is the Hall of Consciousness. Each flame has three sub-flames, symbolizing fire on Earth, in the atmosphere and in the sky. At the top of the arch is mahākāla, “Great time.” Mahākāla is God Śiva Himself who creates, transcends and ends time.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2683	Śiva Naṭarāja dances within the state of timeless transcendence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2685	Nuclear families are just waiting to explode.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2686	The double lotus pedestal, mahāmbujapīṭha, [on which God Siva Nataraja dances] symbolizes manifestation. From this base springs the cosmos.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/18	Siva|2687	[After taking a walk among the trees] It’s so quiet out there. I see why they call it for rest.” [forest] 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2688	When looking for tax deductions stops, then true giving begins.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2689	[While  having a serious case of pneumonia] I’ve never been so sick before in all my life, except when I was born and I’m still not over that.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2690	[Singing a Frank Sinatra song] Those were the days my friend, we thought the’d never end. But they did.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2691	Think of loans as a drug, OPM, other peoples’ money. [Speaking of avoiding the addiction of living on borrowed money] 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor,Facing Life|2692	Ṛishis proclaim that we are not our body, mind or emotions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Facing Life,Meditation|2693	We are divine souls on a wondrous journey.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Facing Life,Meditation|2694	 I always believed a good buy is a hello. [One day when shopping in South India:]	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2695	We came from God, live in God and are evolving into oneness with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2696	We are, in truth, the Truth we seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	The Self|2697	Wisdom is just having a wise dome.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2698	Ṛishis proclaim that we are not our body, mind or emotions. We are divine souls on a wondrous journey.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Facing Life,Meditation|2699	I am so disappointed in my enemies. Not one has ever been able to stay mad at me.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2700	We are divine souls on a wondrous journey. We came from God, live in God and are evolving into oneness with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva,Facing Life|2701	Ṛishis proclaim that we are not our body, mind or emotions. We are divine souls on a wondrous journey. We came from God, live in God and are evolving into oneness with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva,Facing Life,Meditation|2702	We are divine souls on a wondrous journey. We came from God, live in God and are evolving into oneness with God. We are, in truth, the Truth we seek	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva,The Self,Facing Life,Meditation|2703	We came from God, live in God and are evolving into oneness with God. We are, in truth, the Truth we seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva,Wisdom,Facing Life,Meditation|2704	We are immortal souls living and growing in the great school of earthly experience in which we have lived many lives.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Facing Life|2707	Vedic ṛishis have given us courage by uttering the simple truth, “God is the Life of our life.” A great sage carried it further by saying there is one thing God cannot do: God cannot separate Himself from us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2708	God cannot separate Himself from us. This is be­cause God is our life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2711	We are the un­dying consciousness and energy flowing through all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2712	God cannot separate Himself from us. This is be­cause God is our life. God is the life in the birds. God is the life in the fish. God is the life in the animals. Becoming aware of this Life energy in all that lives is becoming aware of God’s loving presence within us. We are the un­dying consciousness and energy flowing through all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2713	Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva,Facing Life|2714	Becoming aware of this Life energy in all that lives is becoming aware of God’s loving presence within us. We are the un­dying consciousness and energy flowing through all things.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Facing Life,Siva|2715	We are the un­dying consciousness and energy flowing through all things. Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Facing Life,Meditation|2716	Our energy and God’s energy are the same, ever coming out of the void.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2717	Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole. Our energy and God’s energy are the same, ever coming out of the void.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva,Facing Life|2718	We are the un­dying consciousness and energy flowing through all things. Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole. Our energy and God’s energy are the same, ever coming out of the void.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2719	Becoming aware of this Life energy in all that lives is becoming aware of God’s loving presence within us. We are the un­dying consciousness and energy flowing through all things. Deep inside we are perfect this very moment, and we have only to discover and live up to this perfection to be whole. Our energy and God’s energy are the same, ever coming out of the void.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2720	We are all beautiful children of God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2721	Each day we should try to see the life energy in trees, birds, animals and people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Meditation,Facing Life|2723	The Vedas affirm, “He who knows God as the Life of life, the Eye of the eye, the Ear of the ear, the Mind of the mind—he indeed comprehends fully the Cause of all causes.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Siva|2724	Each day we should try to see the life energy in trees, birds, animals and people. When we do, we are seeing God Śiva in action. The Vedas affirm, “He who knows God as the Life of life, the Eye of the eye, the Ear of the ear, the Mind of the mind—he indeed comprehends fully the Cause of all causes.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/24	Meditation,Facing Life,Siva|2725	An aspirant climbs the highest peak of all, the summit of consciousness. Though the higher reaches of this path are arduous, solitary, even severe, he remains undaunted, impervious to distraction, his eyes fixed firmly on the goal—Self Realization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/25	The Self,Meditation|2726	We are all growing toward God, and experience is the path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Siva,Facing Life|2727	Through experience we mature out of fear into fearlessness, out of anger into love, out of conflict into peace, out of darkness into light and union in God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Siva,Facing Life|2728	We are all growing toward God, and experience is the path. Through experience we mature out of fear into fearlessness, out of anger into love, out of conflict into peace, out of darkness into light and union in God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Siva,Facing Life|2729	We have taken birth in a physical body to grow and evolve in­to our divine potential.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Siva,Facing Life|2730	We are inwardly al­ready one with God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Siva|2732	We have taken birth in a physical body to grow and evolve in­to our divine potential. We are inwardly al­ready one with God. Our religion contains the knowledge of how to realize this one­ness and not create un­wanted experiences along the way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Siva,Hinduism,Facing Life|2733	The peerless path is following the way of our spiritual forefathers, discovering the mystical meaning of the scrip­tures. The peerless path is commitment, study, discipline, practice and the maturing of yoga into wisdom.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Facing Life,Sadhana,Meditation|2735	In the beginning stages, we suffer un­til we learn.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Facing Life|2736	Learning leads us to service; and selfless service is the be­ginning of spiritual striving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Facing Life|2737	Service leads us to understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Facing Life|2738	Understanding leads us to medi­tate deep­­ly and without distractions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Facing Life,Meditation|2739	Fin­ally, meditation leads us to surrender in God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Meditation,Siva|2740	This is the straight and certain path, the San Mārga, leading to Self Realization—the inmost purpose of life—and subsequently to moksha, freedom from rebirth.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	The Self|2741	In the beginning stages, we suffer un­til we learn. Learning leads us to service; and selfless service is the be­ginning of spiritual striving. Service leads us to understanding. Understanding leads us to medi­tate deep­­ly and without distractions. Fin­ally, meditation leads us to surrender in God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	Facing Life,Meditation,Sadhana,Siva|2743	The Vedas wisely af­firm, “By austerity, goodness is obtained. From goodness, understanding is reached. From understanding, the Self is obtained, and he who obtains the Self is freed from the cycle of birth and death.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/26	The Self,Facing Life|2745	Lord Śiva is the Life of our life, the motion within all movements.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/27	Siva|2747	All motion begins in God and ends in God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2748	The whole universe is engaged in a whirling flow of change and activity. This is Śiva’s dance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2749	We are all dancing with Śiva, and He with us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2751	All motion begins in God and ends in God. The whole universe is engaged in a whirling flow of change and activity. This is Śiva’s dance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2752	The whole universe is engaged in a whirling flow of change and activity. This is Śiva’s dance. We are all dancing with Śiva, and He with us. Ultimately, we are Śiva dancing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2753	All motion begins in God and ends in God. The whole universe is engaged in a whirling flow of change and activity. This is Śiva’s dance. We are all dancing with Śiva, and He with us. Ultimately, we are Śiva dancing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2754	The world is seen as it truly is—sacred—when we be­hold Śiva’s cosmic dance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva,Facing Life|2755	Everything in the universe, all that we see, hear and imagine, is movement. Galaxies soar in movement; atoms swirl in movement. All movement is Śiva’s dance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2756	All movement is Śiva’s dance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2759	It is by understanding the eternal truths that we bring all areas of our mind into the knowledge of how to accept what is and not wish it to be otherwise.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Facing Life,Hinduism|2760	Once this happens, we begin to consciously dance with Śiva, to move with the sacred flow that surrounds us, to accept praise and blame, joy and sorrow, prosperity and adversity in equanimity, the fruit of un­­der­stand­ing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva,Facing Life|2764	The Vedas state, “The cosmic soul is truly the whole universe, the im­mortal source of all creation, all action, all meditation. Whoever discovers Him, hidden deep within, cuts through the bonds of ignorance even during his life on Earth.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/28	Siva|2765	Dance is movement, and the most exquisite dance is the most disciplined dance.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	|2766	Hindu spiritual disciplines lead to oneness with God through self-reflection, surrender, personal transformation and the many yogas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Hinduism,Sadhana,Siva,Meditation|2767	Dance is movement, and the most exquisite dance is the most disciplined dance. Hindu spiritual disciplines lead to oneness with God through self-reflection, surrender, personal transformation and the many yogas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Hinduism,Siva,Sadhana,Meditation|2768	To progress on the path, we study the Vedas, other scriptures and our guru’s teachings and make every ef­fort to apply these philosophical truths to daily experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Facing Life,Guru|2769	We strive to un­der­stand the mind in its fourfold na­ture: chitta, consciousness; manas, instinctive mind; buddhi, intellectual mind; and ahaṁ­­kāra, ego or I-maker.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Meditation,Facing Life|2770	To progress on the path, we study theVedas, other scriptures and our guru’s teachings and make every ef­fort to apply these philosophical truths to daily experience. We strive to un­der­stand the mind in its fourfold na­ture: chitta, consciousness; manas, instinctive mind; buddhi, intellectual mind; and ahaṁ­­kāra, ego or I-maker.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Facing Life,Guru|2772	We strive to un­der­stand the mind in its fourfold na­ture: chitta, consciousness; manas, instinctive mind; buddhi, intellectual mind; and ahaṁ­­kāra, ego or I-maker. We per­form japa, meditation and yoga each day. Such spiritual discipline is known as sādhana.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Meditation,Facing Life|2775	Sādhana al­lows us to live in the refined and cultured soul nature, rather than in the outer, instinctive or intellectual spheres.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Facing Life|2776	For consistent progress, sādhana should be performed regularly, without fail, at the same time each day, preferably in the early hours before dawn.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Facing Life|2777	The most im­portant sādhanas are the chal­lenges and practices given by one’s guru.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Facing Life,Guru|2778	The Vedas caution, “The Self cannot be attained by the weak, nor by the careless, nor through aim­­less disciplines. But if one who knows strives by right means, his soul enters the abode of God.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	The Self|2779	For consistent progress, sādhana should be performed regularly, without fail, at the same time each day, preferably in the early hours before dawn. The most im­portant sādhanas are the chal­lenges and practices given by one’s guru.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Facing Life,Guru|2780	Sādhana al­lows us to live in the refined and cultured soul nature, rather than in the outer, instinctive or intellectual spheres. For consistent progress, sādhana should be performed regularly, without fail, at the same time each day, preferably in the early hours before dawn.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/30	Sadhana,Facing Life|2782	The ultimate goal of life on Earth is to realize the Self, the rare attainment of nirvikalpa samādhi.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2784	The realization of the Self, Paraśiva, is the destiny of each soul, attainable through renunciation, sustained meditation and frying the seeds of karmas yet to germinate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self,Meditation,Karma|2786	The Self lies beyond the thinking mind, beyond the feeling na­ture, beyond action or any movement of even the highest state of consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2787	The Self God is more solid than a neutron star, more elusive than empty space, more intimate than thought and feeling.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2788	It [the Self God] is ultimate reality itself, the innermost Truth all seekers seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2790	The Self lies beyond the thinking mind, beyond the feeling nature, beyond action or any movement of even the highest state of consciousness. The Self God is more solid than a neutron star, more elusive than empty space, more intimate than thought and feeling. It is ultimate reality itself, the innermost Truth all seekers seek.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2792	After the Self is realized, the mind is seen for the unreality that it truly is.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2793	Because Self Realization must be experienced in a physical body, the soul cycles back again and again into flesh to dance with Śiva, live with Śiva and ultimate­ly merge with Śiva in un­dif­ferenti­at­ed oneness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2795	The Vedas explain, “As water poured into water, milk poured into milk, ghee into ghee be­come one without differentiation, even so the individual soul and the Supreme Self become one.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self|2796	Yea, jīva is actually Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	Siva|2797	Because Self Realization must be experienced in a physical body, the soul cycles back again and again into flesh to dance with Śiva, live with Śiva and ultimate­ly merge with Śiva in un­dif­ferenti­at­ed oneness. Yea, jīva is actually Śiva.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/32	The Self,Siva|2799	Lead me from unreality to reality. Lead me from darkness to light. Lead me from death to immortality.                Śukla Yajur Veda, Bṛihadāraṇyaka Upanishad 1.3.28. HH, 202	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/33	|2801	We don't have enough men to go around. That's how that other religion got its name [Mormen] The ladies said, "We need more men."	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2804	I am the Supreme Brahman! I am the Lord of the universe! Such is the settled conviction of the muktas. All other experiences lead to bondage. When the Self is clearly realized not to be the body, the realizer gains peace and becomes free from all desires.       Devīkālottara Āgama, Jñāna-āchara-vichara 50-51. RM, 114	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/33	Siva,The Self,Facing Life|2809	The deeper you go the less you know. At the beginning I thought I knew a lot, but I am knowing less and less as the time goes by.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2815	The Sanātana Dharma, or “eternal faith,” known today as Hinduism, is a family of religions that accept the authority of the Vedas.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2817	The world’s billion Hindus, one-sixth of the human family, are organized in four main denominations, each distinguish­ed by its Su­preme Deity.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2818	For Vaishṇavites, Lord Vishṇu is God. For Śai­vites, God is Śiva. For Śāktas, Goddess Śakti is su­preme. For Smār­tas, liberal Hindus, the choice of Deity is left to the devotee.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2819	The world’s billion Hindus, one-sixth of the human family, are organized in four main denominations, each distinguish­ed by its Su­preme Deity. For Vaishṇavites, Lord Vishṇu is God. For Śai­vites, God is Śiva. For Śāktas, Goddess Śakti is su­preme. For Smār­tas, liberal Hindus, the choice of Deity is left to the devotee.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2821	Each [denomination of Hinduism] has a multitude of guru lineages, religious leaders, priesthoods, sacred literature, monastic communities, schools, pilgrimage centers and tens of thousands of temples.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2824	These four sects [of Hinduism] hold such divergent be­liefs that each is a complete and independent religion. Yet, they share a vast heritage of culture and belief—karma, dharma, reincarnation, all-pervasive Divinity, temple worship, sacraments, manifold Deities, the guru-śishya tradition and the Vedas as scriptural authority.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2826	While India is home to most Hindus, large communities flourish worldwide.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Hinduism|2827	The Vedas elaborate, “He is Brahmā. He is Śiva. He is Indra. He is the immutable, the su­preme, the self-luminous. He is Vishṇu. He is life. He is time. He is the fire, and He is the moon.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/37	Siva,The Self|2828	Śaivism is the world’s oldest religion.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2829	Worshiping God Śiva, the compassionate One, it [Saivism] stresses potent disciplines, high philosophy, the guru’s centrality and bhakti-rāja-siddha yoga leading to oneness with Śiva within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism,Guru,Siva,Meditation|2830	Śaivism is the world’s oldest religion. Worshiping God Śiva, the compassionate One, it stresses potent disciplines, high philosophy, the guru’s centrality and bhakti-rāja-siddha yoga leading to oneness with Śiva within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism,Siva,Sadhana,Meditation,Gods,Worship|2831	Śaivism is ancient, truly ageless, for it has no beginning.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2834	Scholars trace the roots of Śiva worship back more than 8,000 years to the advanced Indus Valley civilization.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2835	You have to choose your Deity carefully, but the choice is not difficult because it is Lord Ganesha. You see..[laughs]. And Lord Ganesha will open all the inner doors to all the other Gods for you at the right time. So think of Lord Ganesha's nice plump feet.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2836	Scholars trace the roots of Śiva worship back more than 8,000 years to the advanced Indus Valley civilization. But sa­cred writings tell us there never was a time when Śaivism did not exist.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2837	Śaivism is ancient, truly ageless, for it has no beginning. It is the precursor of the many-faceted religion now termed Hinduism. Scholars trace the roots of Śiva worship back more than 8,000 years to the advanced Indus Valley civilization. But sa­cred writings tell us there never was a time when Śaivism did not exist.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2838	Modern history re­cords six main schools [of Saivism]: Śaiva Siddhānta, Pāśupatism, Kashmīr Śaivism, Vīra Śaivism, Siddha Siddhānta and Śiva Advaita.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2839	Śaivism’s grand­eur and beauty are found in a practical culture, an en­lightened view of man’s place in the universe and a profound system of temple mysticism and siddha yoga.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2840	It [Saivism] provides knowledge of man’s evolution from God and back to God, of the soul’s unfoldment and awakening guided by en­lightened sages.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/39	Hinduism|2844	Śāktism reveres the Supreme as the Divine Mother, Śakti or Devī, in Her many forms, both gentle and fierce.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/41	Hinduism,Gods|2845	Is the high eee the same kind of high eee that Beni's daddy is hearing and getting treated for it because he thinks something's wrong with him? Well we don't know what he's hearing but it probably is, doctors will make money off of anything that they possibly can.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2861	In the Sat yuga, we're not in that yet, its the next one to come up, everybody's intuitive and everybody is careful about one another's feelings and a great culture comes up. But when the lower mind rules and especially people are doing it can be a pretty dreadful place. So it's like a big washing machine. Right now we're in the dryer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2863	You can give up what you desire very easily. I desire to have a computer. I no longer desire to have a computer. I have twenty five of them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor|2864	First thing that Lord Siva gives is intelligence. He is the author of intelligence. So if you start worshipping Lord Siva, the first thing he gives is intelligence. Isn't that wonderful? We can always use more of that!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor,Siva|2865	Siva can't separate himself from you. Even with all of his power he can't take himself away from you. It must be embarrassing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami			Humor,Siva|2898	Him who is without beginning and without end, in the midst of confusion, the Creator of all, of manifold form, the One embracer of the universe—by knowing God, one is released from all fetters.  Kṛishṇa Yajur Veda, Śvetāśvatara Upanishad 5.13. UPH, 407	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Siva|2899	The Primordial Vastness is the sky. The Primordial Vastness is the sphere of space. The Primordial Vastness is the mother, the father, the son. The Primordial Vastness is all the Gods, the five sorts of men, all that was born and shall be born.  Ṛig Veda 1.89.10. HP, 114	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	The Self,Siva|2900	May I attain to Vishṇu’s glorious mansion where the faithful rejoice, where, close beside the Strider, within His highest footstep springs the well of purest honey.  Ṛig Veda 1.154.5. VE, 152	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Gods|2901	I am the ruling Queen, the amasser of treasures, full of wisdom, first of those worthy of worship. In various places, divine powers have set Me. I enter many homes and take numerous forms.  Ṛig Veda 10.125.3. VE, 97	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Gods|2902	He who bestows life force and hardy vigor, whose ordinances even the Gods obey, whose shadow is immortal life—and death—what God shall we adore with our oblation? Who by his grandeur has emerged sole sovereign of every living thing that breathes and slumbers, he who is Lord of man and four-legged creatures, what God shall we adore with our oblation?  Ṛig Veda 10.121.2-3. VE, 71	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Siva,Worship|2903	Whatever exists and wherever it exists is permeated by the same divine power and force.  Śukla Yajur Veda, Īśa Upanishad 1. EH, 45	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Siva|2904	Recognition of the world as the manifestation of Śakti is worship of Śakti. Pure knowledge, unrelated to objects, is absolute.  Devīkālottara Āgama, Jñāna-āchara-vichara 14. RM, 112	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Gods|2905	When milk is poured into milk, oil into oil, water into water, they blend in absolute oneness. So also the illumined seer, the knower of the ātman, becomes one with the ātman.   Devīkālottara Āgama, Jñāna-āchara-vichara 14. RM, 112	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	The Self|2908	Worship, by offering sweet-scented flowers, the God who is the Infinite Lord of all. Give reverence to your tradition’s God, who the whole world and all that lives pervades. Before the body falls, revere the God who both the One and many has become.  Natchintanai, “The Wisdom...” NT, 202	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Worship,Siva|2909	Whatever you see, see as Śiva and do not be distressed, O mind! Those who are free from agitation and who the senses five control will surely win the bliss of Śiva. The path prescribed by your religion you should always tread, and live in changeless, silent contemplation. Whatever you see, see as Śiva.   Natchintanai, “Whatever You See...” NT, 68	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/dancing-with-siva/46	Siva,Meditation|2916	Once you have decided that Self Realization is the ultimate goal for you, go on living your normal life. Everything that you do in life can collectively be channeled toward the ultimate goal, for what you need is a dynamic will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	The Self,Facing Life|2917	Willpower is the channeling of all energies toward one given point for a given length of time. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2919	Will means that if you’re going to complete something, you complete it. Finish that which you begin. Finish it well, beyond your expectations, no matter how long it takes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2920	If you are going to do something, do it well, no matter if it is a simple task or a complicated one.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2922	It is not developing a strong will by having a lot of half-finished jobs. It is not developing a strong will by starting out with a bang on a project and then fizzling out. These only attach awareness to that which it is aware of and lead us into the distraction of thinking the external mind is real.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2923	A tremendous will is needed on the path of Self Realization, of drawing the forces of energy together, of drawing awareness away from that which it is aware of constantly, of finishing each job that we begin in the material world, and doing it well, so that we are content within ourselves. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life,The Self|2924	Make everything that you do satisfy the inner scrutiny of your inner being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2925	 Make everything that you do satisfy the inner scrutiny of your inner being. Do a little more than you think that you are able to do. That brings forth just a little more will. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2926	Do a little more than you think that you are able to do. That brings forth just a little more will. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2927	You need a tremendous, indomitable will to make a reality of your quest of realizing the Being within.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life,The Self|2928	Unfoldment doesn’t take a lot of time. It just takes a lot of willpower.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2929	Someone can go along and sit at attention, and concentrate and meditate for years and years and years and, with a minimal amount of willpower, constantly be distracted, constantly be complaining and constantly be unsuccessful. Another person can have the exact same approach and over a short period of time be extremely successful, because he has will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2930	Will is the fuel which carries awareness through all areas of the mind, that spirit, that spiritual quality, which makes all inner goals a reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2931	Unfoldment does not take time. It takes a tremendous will. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2933	Discover the will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2934	Discover the will. Back to the spine. Feel the energy in the spine. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2936	When you become aware of the energy within your spine and within your head, you have separated awareness from that which it is aware of, for that is awareness itself, and that is will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2937	Energy, awareness and willpower are one and the same.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2939	You want awareness to be renewed. The first step is—don’t try to go to the Self; you haven’t realized it yet—go to the spine. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	The Self,Facing Life|2941	Before you realize the Self and have that samādhi—attention, concentration. Concentrate on the energy within the spine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	The Self,Facing Life|2943	Work with willpower, awareness and energy as three separate items first. Feel awareness and discover what it is. Use willpower and discover what it is. Feel energy and analyze energy and discover what it is.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2944	Feel awareness and discover what it is. Use willpower and discover what it is. Feel energy and analyze energy and discover what it is.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2946	Finally, in your last incarnation on the Earth, you merge into its final experience, that great samādhi, the Self, beyond the complete, still area of consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	The Self|2947	Here are the ingredients: attention, concentration, meditation, contemplation, samādhi.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2949	You have to give up the consciousness of the television, the money, the clothes, the people that you know, the personality that you thought you were, the physical body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2950	You have to go into the elements of the physical body, into the elements of that, and into the energy of that, and into the vast inner space of that, and into the core of that, and into the that of that, and into the that of that, and finally you realize that you have realized the Self. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life,The Self|2951	When you go into a meditation, decide first what you are going to meditate upon and then stick with it. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2952	It is not advisable to habitually sit for meditation with no particular goal or direction, for we often end up walking in mental or subconscious circles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2953	When you go into a meditation, decide first what you are going to meditate upon and then stick with it. It is not advisable to habitually sit for meditation with no particular goal or direction, for we often end up walking in mental or subconscious circles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2954	We have to avoid going into a meditation and then taking off into random or unintended directions, for this then can lend new vigor and strength to uncomely states of mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2955	You have to be very firm with yourself in meditation sessions.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2957	 If you are working on a project creatively, you maintain your efforts until you bring it to a conclusion. It is such people who become truly successful in meditation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life,Meditation|2958	You can learn to meditate extremely well, but will be unsuccessful if you don’t approach it in an extremely positive way, if you allow yourself to get sidetracked on the inside once the inside opens up and you can really become aware of inner states.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2959	Care must be taken not to wander around in inner states of consciousness. You can wander in extraneous, unproductive areas for a long, long time. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2961	Undisciplined people are generally people whom nobody can tell what to do. They won’t listen. They can’t tell themselves what to do, and nobody else is going to tell them either!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2962	If you sincerely want to make headway in meditation and continue to do so year after year after year, you have to approach it in a very positive, systematic way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2963	By not seeking or responding to discipline, you can learn to meditate fairly well, just as you can learn to play the vīṇā fairly well, but you will never go much farther than that.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2964	I want to impress on you: if you start a meditation, stay with it. Attack it positively. Go on and on and in and in and in. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2966	Someone who meditates well also thinks well. He can flow through that thinking area of the mind and work out things through the thought processes.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation,Facing Life|2969	 If you sit down to meditate, meditate! Don’t get sidetracked on anything else, no matter how attractive it may be.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2970	If the power builds within you, sit for a long time afterwards and let the energy absorb into the cells of your external body. Great energy is released from within. Don’t get up after your meditation and immediately run off to do something. Sit in silent stillness until that power subsides in a gradual and refined way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2971	Don’t get up after your meditation and immediately run off to do something. Sit in silent stillness until that power subsides in a gradual and refined way.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2972	The mystic seeks to gain the conscious control of his own willpower, to awaken knowledge of the primal force through the direct experience of it and to claim conscious control of his own individual awareness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2973	In the beginning stages on the path, you will surely experience your mind wandering—when awareness is totally identified with everything that it is aware of.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2975	If one has no guru or has one and is only a part-time devotee, then he must struggle in his efforts as an orphan in the institution of external life, for the world is your guru. His name is Śrī Śrī Viśvaguru Mahā Mahārāj, the most august universal teacher, grand master and sovereign.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Guru|2976	Even before we sit down to meditate, one of the first steps is to acquire a conscious mastery of awareness in the conscious mind itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Meditation|2977	Learn attention and concentration. Apply them in everything that you do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2978	As soon as we bring awareness to attention and train awareness in the art of concentration, the great power of observation comes to us naturally.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2979	All awakened souls have keen observation. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2980	 All awakened souls have keen observation. They do not miss very much that happens around them on the physical plane or on the inner planes. They are constantly in a state of observation.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2981	Perhaps the biggest battle in the beginning stages of practicing attention and concentration is the control of breath. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2983	The beginner will not want to sit long enough, or not be able to become quiet enough to have a deep, controlled flow of breath. After five minutes, the physical elements of the subconscious mind will become restless.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2984	When you sit at attention, view all of the distractions that come as you endeavor to concentrate on one single object, such as a flower. This will show you exactly how the conscious and subconscious mind operate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2985	The habit of becoming constantly distracted makes it impossible for you to truly concentrate the mind or to realize anything other than distractions and the desires of the conscious mind itself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2986	Even the poor subconscious has a time keeping up with the new programming flowing into it from the experiences our awareness goes through as it travels quickly through the conscious mind in an undisciplined way. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2987	When the subconscious mind becomes overloaded in recording all that goes into it from the conscious mind, we experience frustration, anxiety, nervousness, insecurity and neuroses.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2988	There comes a time in man’s life when he has to put an end to it all. He sits down. He begins to breathe, to ponder and be aware of only one pleasant thing. As he does this, he becomes dynamic and his will becomes strong.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2989	Yes, willpower is the key, the must, the most needed faculty for spiritual unfoldment on this path. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2990	Work hard, strive to accomplish, strengthen the will by using the will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2991	“With love in the will, the spirit is free.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2993	Say in your mind to everyone you meet, “I like you. You like me, I really do like you. I love you. I truly love you.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2994	“With love in the will, the spirit is free.” This means that willpower can be used wrongly without the binding softening of love, simple love. Say in your mind to everyone you meet, “I like you. You like me, I really do like you. I love you. I truly love you.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/51	Facing Life|2995	The man looking into the “where and when” of the future, blending his energies with those who are also striving to evolve into a more ramified state of mind, can suffer well if he keeps going, producing, acquiring and believing that materiality is reality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life|2996	Now, in the dawn of a new age, when many men are being drawn within, it is eminently easier to attain and maintain clarity of perception through the actinic light within the body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life|2997	Through the classical yoga techniques, perfecting the conscious use of the actinic willpower, the energies can be drawn inward from the outer mind, and the awareness can bask in the actinic light, coming into the outer mind only at will, and positively.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation|2998	Occasionally young aspirants burst into inner experience indicating a balance of intense light at a still-higher rate of vibration of here-and-now awareness than their almost daily experience of a moon-glow inner light: the dynamic vision of seeing the head, and at times the body, filled with a brilliant clear white light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation|2999	Occasionally, in a cross-section of the inner mind, when light merges into transcendental form, the young aspirant may view the golden actinic face of a master peering into his, kindly and all-knowing. He is looking at his own great potential.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation|3000	The highly trained classical yoga adept intensifies, through techniques imparted to him from his guru, the clear white light to the brink of God Realization, the void.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation,Guru,The Self|3001	The Self is the only reality and is an intensity far greater than that of any phase of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	The Self|3002	The ability to see the external world as transparent, a game, a dream, encourages the aspirant to seek deeper. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation|3004	The ability of the ardent soul to recognize his guru and identify himself in the actinic flow from whence the master infuses knowledge by causing inner doors to open is another signpost that the aspirant has become an experiencer and is touching in on the fringe or perimeter of transcendental states of mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation|3005	Those among the youth of today who have had some measure of attainment, of which there are many, will be the leaders, businessmen, politicians and educators of tomorrow.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation,Facing Life|3006	Remember, when the seal is broken and clear white light has flooded the mind, there is no more a gap between the inner and the outer.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation|3009	Students functioning odically and out of actinic harmony with their satguru found that they did not have control of the actinic power and had difficulty in maintaining the continuity of consciousness of the yoga path and its teachings.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Guru,Meditation,Facing Life|3010	By holding your mind to one particular physical object and seeing how long you can maintain this one-pointedness, you are mastering the art of concentration, controlling the odic forces.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Meditation|3011	Comprehension is superconsciousness, the actinic force flowing through the mind; and maintaining the consciousness of comprehension is having conscious control of the superconscious mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/83	Meditation|3012	Stress is a consequence of the technological age	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3013	Stress and strains of a fast-paced and demanding modern age affect every organ of the body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3014	Our religion has ways to combat stress and the diseases it causes, ways to avoid the mental anguish which this fast-paced world brings about.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Hinduism,Facing Life|3015	Life in the technological age is a life of constant work, constant activity, all of the time. So, we tend to set religion aside just when we need it the most. We have to rely on our religion to keep a balance in our life. It is a proven fact that religious people can cope with stress and strain better than nonreligious people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Hinduism|3016	It is a proven fact that religious people can cope with stress and strain better than nonreligious people. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Hinduism,Facing Life|3017	Spiritual things you must understand with your heart, with your feeling. Feeling and thinking, working together, give you that deep understanding that you need to cognize the wisdom of the spirit.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Meditation|3018	Just as thought can flow through the body, so can spirit, or God, flow through the intuitive, the intellectual and the instinctive mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Meditation|3019	When your thoughts flow through the body, your body becomes either dejected and heavy, or light and happy, depending upon the nature of your thinking.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3020	Affirmations can help you to improve the patterns of your thought and feeling. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3021	Just as thought can flow through the body, so can spirit, or God, flow through the intuitive, the intellectual and the instinctive mind. When your thoughts flow through the body, your body becomes either dejected and heavy, or light and happy, depending upon the nature of your thinking. Affirmations can help you to improve the patterns of your thought and feeling.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3025	What is responsible for negative reactions of the subconscious mind? Simply the transgressions that you have caused against the natural laws of the mind, that’s all.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Karma|3026	When you control your emotions, you are bringing through your spiritual being. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3027	When you are living in an emotional state, you are only experiencing the mind temporarily out of control.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3028	To keep your spirit flowing, always allow yourself to be in the line of understanding. In other words, do not allow misunderstanding to arise in your mind. Should misunderstanding arise, sit down, be quiet and do not get up until you understand the problem.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Meditation|3029	Train your mind to awaken the spiritual being. This is as difficult to do as it is to train a person to dance or to swim, or to accomplish any athletic feat requiring a highly trained body. You have to always be the master, and be attentive to your goals in life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Meditation|3030	What is your goal in this life? Is your goal to sit and wallow in the emotions? Is it to memorize a lot of things that different people have said so you can quote from them? Or is your goal in life to find first your Infinite Being within yourself? If you could only once gain just a glimmer of your true Being	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,The Self|3031	Are you ready to become a spirit, a spiritual being, an illumined mind, at the moment of death? Or at the moment of death are you ready to become a completely confused, congested mass of gaseous matter, which is what a confused mind looks like? These are vital religious questions that the individual must face and find the answers to. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Wisdom|3032	 Opinions are just of the instinctive and intellectual mind. Most opinions are only moldy concepts!	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Wisdom|3033	 Negative qualities are just congested masses of mind-stuff that are temporary and do not allow the spirit to flow through. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3035	 Put a smile on the faces of other people. Gain your happiness and your positive states of mind by making other people happy.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3036	You purify yourself by being kind to others, being generous until it hurts, being benevolent, being ready to serve at all times until you are strained in serving.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3037	 Negative people are always worried about themselves. Positive people are concerned with the happiness of others.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3038	You lose the battle when you begin to fight your own inner Self. You win the battle when you begin to express yourself spiritually, when you begin to live with Śiva. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Siva|3040	 Śiva is always within you, always there.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Siva|3041	Through silence, quieting your mind, you can become That which you truly are and shine out through that which you thought you were.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	The Self,Facing Life|3042	Intensify the spirit within you and heal any wounds that the mind may have. As Mother Nature heals the body, so does Śiva, the Self, heal the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Siva,The Self|3043	Turn your mind inward. Turn your will inward and live that glorious spiritual life and be ready as a spiritual being to meet the experience of death.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3044	Morning pūjās are excellent opportunities for you to practice self-discipline, to offer yourself opportunities to change, to alter the habit patterns that have been built into your mind during the year.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Sadhana,Worship,Karma|3045	When you learn to stop criticizing yourself, you are able to appreciate the many experiences that you have been through during the year, rather than regretting them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3046	Regret possibly is an experience more harmful than the experience you have been regretting. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3047	Through your meditation you will appreciate your experiences for what they are—good or difficult.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Meditation,Facing Life,Karma|3048	The first step in learning to rejuvenate your mind is being able to look objectively at your experiences.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Karma|3049	 Through your meditation you will appreciate your experiences for what they are—good or difficult. Simply make a resolution not to repeat the difficult ones and have faith enough to correct what your experiences have caused in the world as a result of your going through them. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Meditation,Karma,Facing Life|3051	Making the subconscious mind transparent is a basic religious practice. Only when this is first done is it possible to make progress in seeking God. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Siva|3052	When you have nothing in your subconscious that particularly bothers you, it is easy to turn the mind inward. But if you are bothered or disturbed, the subconscious acts as a barrier and makes it difficult to turn within. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3053	A disturbed mind which is not permeated with Śivaness is strong in a negative sense, strong in that it will keep you from the realization of God.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Siva|3054	When the mind is disturbed, it is outwardly strong. The mind that is not disturbed is inwardly strong. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3055	Your inner strength is always more dependable than your outward display of strength.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3056	Hold your consciousness high, keep your mind alive and alert so that your soul is alive and alert. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3057	If your observation is intense and accurate, your mind is not bothered and you are not regretting things that have happened to you in the past.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3058	People who have poor observation often do hold on to their regrets, and they rationalize most of what happens to them, putting the blame for their own experiences on someone else.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3059	 Life is meant to be lived joyously.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3060	The awakened soul is a joyous soul with a positive mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3062	Recognizing that all experience is but a fading dream, you are closer to the permanence within you that never changes. You can sense it. It is God. It is Śiva. It has never changed. It will never change.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Karma,Siva|3063	You will go through many different tests to prove your own realization to yourself. Face each test graciously. Welcome each test, and welcome each temptation that shows you the strength of your will over the chaotic senses.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Karma,Facing Life|3065	Reactions are caused by what we have placed in the subconscious mind that we have not fully understood. Reactions are packed away in the subconscious mind, influencing our everyday life, attracting our successes and failures to us. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Karma,Facing Life|3066	 We keep meeting blocks because of our reactions in the subconscious mind that we set up in the past. Overcome these reactions, and opportunities will open up and we will begin to succeed. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Karma,Facing Life|3069	Whether we admit it or not, we attract everything that happens to us. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Karma|3070	What we react to, and what we have reacted to in the past, we will create in our future.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Karma,Facing Life|3072	Every man must decide whether he wants to be caged in by experience or be freed by understanding the cause of the experience.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Karma,Facing Life|3073	The average man reacts to something every day. That’s what makes him average.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life|3074	For a person to renovate his subconscious mind, he must be willing to move out for awhile, redesign, rebuild, redecorate, then move back in. This is a form of spiritual discipline.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/87	Facing Life,Sadhana|3076	When the penitent is undergoing penance, it is a form of tapas, described by some as psychic surgery performed by the devas working together to bring the soul from darkness into light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3077	We all know the refined, uplifting feeling of bhakti. Every religious person in the world has experienced this at one time or another. It is the total surrendering of oneself to God and the Gods.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Worship,Siva|3078	As the soul emerges out of the lower aspects of the instinctive mind, the mūlādhāra chakra begins to unfold because of the bhakti that has been awakened through daily worship and sādhana.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Worship,Sadhana,Facing Life|3079	 Confession is truly the voice of the soul. Nothing is hidden to oneself when dharma supersedes adharma.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3080	 A Śaivite confesses to God Śiva, the Gods or his guru.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Siva,Gods,Guru|3081	To confess to God Śiva, go to His temple and mentally, psychically place your burden at the holy feet of the mūrti in the sanctum sanctorum.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Worship,Siva,Facing Life,Karma|3082	To confess to Gods Murugan or Gaṇeśa, go to their temple and place your confession at their holy feet. Or go to your satguru and tell him of your inner plight, holding nothing back. This is how a Śaivite confesses inner burdens as he emerges out of the instinctive mind of the lower nature into the purified intellect of the higher nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Karma,Guru,Gods,Facing Life,Worship|3083	After the soul has unburdened itself of the dross of the lower mind through honest confession, a resolution must be made not to reenter the lower states or rekindle the flames of the chakras below the mūlādhāra.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Karma,Facing Life|3084	To achieve reconciliation by apology for hurts caused another, or to atone by performing acts of penance if a long time has passed since the apology could have been made and received, is truly food for the soul. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3086	Once the satguru is asked for penance, the penance must be performed exactly according to his instruction.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Guru,Facing Life,Karma|3088	The inner process of relieving unwanted karmic burdens occurs in this order: remorse and shame; confession (of which apology is one form); repentance; and finally reconciliation, which is making the situation right, so that good feelings abide all around.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Karma,Facing Life|3089	When no longer protected by its ignorance, the soul longs for release and cries out for solace. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3091	 Penance is for religious people, people who practice daily, know the philosophy and have a spiritual head of their family, people who genuinely want to reach a state of purity and grace. It is not for nonreligious people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3092	The guru has to know the devotee and his family karma over a long period of time before prāyaśchitta is given. Otherwise, it may have the wrong effect. Penance is for religious people, people who practice daily, know the philosophy and have a spiritual head of their family, people who genuinely want to reach a state of purity and grace. It is not for nonreligious people. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Guru,Facing Life,Karma|3093	 Also, I’ve experienced that sometimes just making the confession to the satguru is a sufficient prāyaśchitta and nothing else is necessary. What the troubled conscience thought was bad may not have been bad at all, just normal happenings, but the conscience suffers until that fact is known.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Guru,Facing Life,Karma|3094	Anger, I have observed, is the most difficult fault for people to overcome	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3095	Some people are just angry all the time because they live in the lower nature, constantly engaged in mental criticism and arguments.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3096	Wife-beating and adultery are very serious matters; they break up homes astrally and often physically and create for the perpetrators a rotten birth in the next life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3097	Without resolve and remorse, no penance will work.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3098	Even uncomplimentary states of consciousness can be dissolved through meditation and seeking again the light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Karma,Meditation,Facing Life|3099	The mahā vāsanā daha tantra—writing down and burning all the emotion out of the memories of the past, the hurts of the past, the good things and the bad things that have happened to us since birth—harmonizes the internal and external ego so that we are the same person on the inside as on the outside.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3100	The aspirant can be aware that in having a newfound freedom internally and externally there will be a strong tendency for the mind to reconstruct for itself a new congested subconscious by reacting strongly to happenings during daily experiences.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Karma|3101	Even though one plays the game, having once seen it as a game, there is a tendency of the instinctive phases of nature to fall prey to the accumulative reactions caused by entering into the game.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Karma|3102	The young aspirant must become the experiencer, not the one who has experienced and basks in the memory patterns it caused.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Meditation|3104	The young aspirant must become the experiencer, not the one who has experienced and basks in the memory patterns it caused. This is where the not-too-sought-after word discipline enters into the life and vocabulary of this blooming flower, accounting for the reason why ashrams house students apart for a time.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Meditation,Sadhana|3105	When we write down our hurts and fears and misunderstandings, as well as all the happy times, our loves and losses, our joys and sorrows—and then crumple up the paper, light it with a flame and watch it burn, thinking of it as the garbage of yesterday—we detach the emotion from the memories.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3106	It is very easy to read the external personality of an individual by listening to what he says, looking at what he does and observing his various forms of communication.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3107	The internal personality of the person can be read by observing body language, facial expressions, movements of the eyes, movements of the feet and hands, the way a person walks, the hesitancy before he answers a question.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Wisdom,Facing Life|3110	The young aspirant can use this elementary classical yoga technique of going back over the day at the end of the day in an internal concentration period, holding the thought flow on just the current daily experience, not allowing unrelated thoughts from other days to enter.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation,Sadhana|3112	A new balance must be attained in relating to the materialistic world, for the physical body still must be cared for to unfold further into the human destiny of nirvikalpa samādhi, the realization of the Self beyond the states of mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Karma,Facing Life,The Self|3113	Realizing he is the force that propels him onward, the aspirant will welcome discipline as an intricate part of his internal government, so necessary to being clear white light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Sadhana|3114	It is a great new world of the mind that is entered into when first the clear white light dawns, birthing a new actinic race, immediately causing him to become the parent to his parents and forefathers.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Meditation|3115	You have three kinds of prāṇa inside of you: spiritual, intellectual and instinctive. When you think, you make or cause a motion in that prāṇa and create a form of prāṇa.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3116	In the inner mind, the subconscious prāṇic forms have a color and a corresponding sound when they vibrate with emotion	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3117	Each of us has a story. You are the major actor on the stage of your life, playing the script that you wrote. You are the director and you are the lighting engineer, the stage manager, costume designer and make-up artist. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life|3118	When a particular experience or pattern of experience is repeated over a long period, it creates in the sub of the subconscious mind a latent tendency or propensity in that same direction. This is a vāsanā, which may be positive, śubha, or negative, aśubha.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Facing Life,Karma|3120	The mahā vāsanā daha tantra, a once in a lifetime experience, is the practice of writing down ten pages of memories on lettersize lined paper (about ten words per line, twenty-eight lines, totaling 250-280 words per page) for each year of your life to date and burning them in an ordinary, nonauspicious fire.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Sadhana,Facing Life,Karma|3121	The mere remembrance of an experience coming unbidden proves there is still color/sound emotion attached to it.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/91	Karma,Facing Life|3122	“God Śiva is Immanent Love and Transcendent Reality!”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Siva,The Self|3123	Strī dharma is the woman’s natural path, while purusha dharma, we can say, is the man’s.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Facing Life|3124	Now, in the dawn of a new age, when many men are being drawn within, it is eminently easier to attain and maintain clarity of perception through the actinic light within the body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Facing Life,Meditation|3125	Through the classical yoga techniques, perfecting the conscious use of the actinic willpower, the energies can be drawn inward from the outer mind, and the awareness can bask in the actinic light, coming into the outer mind only at will, and positively.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/55	Meditation,Facing Life,Sadhana|3126	Man is like an egg. He lives and moves within the shell of his own concepts; and within a certain area of the mind that is comfortable to him he finds security.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3127	Visualize within yourself a lotus. Have you ever seen a lotus flower? I am sure you have. Now visualize this lotus flower centered right within the center of your chest, right within your heart.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation|3128	 You have read in the Hindu scriptures that the Self God dwells in the lotus within the heart. Let’s think about that.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation,The Self,Hinduism|3129	 Try to mentally feel and see the heart as a lotus flower right within you. Within the center of the lotus, try to see a small light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation|3130	Doubtless you have read in the Hindu scriptures that the Self God within the heart looks like a brilliant light about the size of your thumb—just a small light. This light we shall call an emanation of your effulgent being. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Hinduism,The Self,Meditation|3132	The subconscious area of the mind consumes many different things. Begin now to think about all the things that you own in your home and all of your personal possessions. The subconscious area of the mind is attached magnetically to each of them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3133	Begin now to think about all the things that you own in your home and all of your personal possessions. The subconscious area of the mind is attached magnetically to each of them. They not only exist in the external world, they also exist, quite alive, within the subconscious area of your mind, along with all the ramifications connected to them. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3134	Everyone who functions in external and inner life lives in a slightly different area of the mind and consumes within his conscious and subconscious areas many thousands of concepts. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3135	Wherever awareness flows through the totality of the mind, the Self is always the same.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,The Self|3136	When individual awareness turns inward, it is possible to contact the light radiations within the lotus of the heart; it then is possible to fully realize Sat­chid­ānanda.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Siva|3137	It is useless to think about the Self, because it does not exist in the area of the mind where thoughts are. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,The Self|3139	The first step is to try to feel the subtlety within you. The light within the lotus of the heart comes from someplace, doesn’t it? 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation,Facing Life,The Self|3140	Each time you take a breath, you bring yourself a little closer, you turn yourself within just a little bit more and release a little bit of actinic energy emanating from the self-effulgent being residing within your heart.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation,Siva|3141	We have to use willpower to control the breath.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3142	Each time you take a breath, you bring yourself a little closer, you turn yourself within just a little bit more and release a little bit of actinic energy emanating from the self-effulgent being residing within your heart. This energy is called life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation,Siva|3143	When we do control the breath, we begin to have an immense control, and awareness begins to become detached from that which it is aware of. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3145	We control our individual awareness more than we realize when we practice the regulation and control of breath.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3146	For instance, as we breathe, prā­ṇā­yāma—in on nine counts, hold one, out on nine counts, hold one—we find that we begin to become more alert, more alive. Our awareness is more subtle and refined. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3147	The emanation of the light that wells from within the lotus of the heart is always there, regardless of what you do.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation,Siva|3149	When man does not wish to look for the Self God, it is only because his awareness is busy in other areas of the mind, concerned with desires, and he is on the road to fulfill them.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	The Self,Facing Life|3150	The fulfillment of desires causes reactionary conditions within the subconscious mind itself and clouds vision. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3152	When man wishes and desires to find his true Self, his external desires fall in line with basic religious codes for living, and he then is on the path.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,The Self,Karma|3154	A beautiful practice is to try to sit quietly, visualizing within the lotus within the heart a light, a strong light emanating clearly, a light that is always there.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation|3156	The mind, or consciousness, is form with intense vibrations and lesser vibrations, all interrelating. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation|3157	When we are happy and joyous, we are aware of the refined states of consciousness. But when we are not happy or joyous, we are living in the grosser, darker areas of consciousness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3158	We have all lived in the gross area of consciousness, and we have all lived in the happy, joyous areas of consciousness. This is the evolution of man’s individual awareness. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3159	Man, awareness, seeks happiness, and when he finds happiness, he often finds fault with it, and then he becomes aware in unhappy areas of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3161	When you are feeling unhappy and you feel unhappy because you are unhappy, and you feel rather ill all over, sit down and breathe deeply.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3162	Try to control your individual awareness and become aware of an area of the mind that is always buoyant and happy. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3163	Be gentle with your awareness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3164	There are many things in life which endeavor to keep us away from our true being. These are the cycles of life. We must watch and be careful of these recurring cycles in our life. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3165	These joyous and sorrowful occurrences that awareness experiences, sometimes each day, sometimes each week, sometimes each month, are totally dependent upon the positive control that we have of awareness.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3166	The subconscious area of the mind is something like the sacred cow of India. It relives what it takes in. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3168	You will find yourself aware of reliving your life, or getting back into the same cycle of the same pattern of life that you experienced many years ago. This you want to avoid, naturally.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3169	Ponder over what you are doing now, how you are living, and then go back and find out within yourself how that compares to a previous time in your life when you were living more or less in the same way. In this way, you will come to know what area of the mind you will become aware in next.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3170	 You have the power to control your cause and effect. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Karma|3171	How do you avoid unhappy states of mind? By consciously flowing awareness into the radiance, the light emanating from the self-effulgent being within the lotus of the heart. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3172	Direct awareness through controlled breathing.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3173	You will actually cause to grow within yourself a subtle nerve force that will turn awareness into the inner being so that consciously you can feel the Self God, your Śivaness, and its emanation that even now exists within you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation,The Self|3175	One moment of contact with your inner being that resides within the lotus of the heart, that is always there—one moment—will clear up a whole situation in the external area of the mind for you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation,The Self,Karma|3177	This self-luminous emanation is like a diamond that is filled with light. Think about it in that way. It is filled with light, this diamond that resides within the lotus of your heart.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation|3178	Visualization of inner things is the same as opening an inner door for awareness to flow through to gain the experience that is already there.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Meditation,Facing Life|3179	Visualization helps to pinpoint awareness and hold awareness concentrated in one certain area of the mind and gently move it to another.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3180	How are we going to master awareness so that it does not feel that it is what it is aware of? We have to pull awareness within, to the more refined areas of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life,Meditation|3181	You have to temporarily gain enough composure, enough control over awareness, so that in thirty seconds you can pull within yourself and, in a sense, light up because you become a little bit aware of the existence of the inner light.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	Facing Life|3182	The Self God is within you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	The Self|3184	The Self God is. It simply is. We do not have to awaken the light within the lotus of the heart, because it is always there, always has been, and always will be. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	The Self|3186	Be That.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/59	The Self|3187	 Before the bright light of spiritual perception is experienced, the light of understanding must be laid as a foundation of philosophical training and appreciation—learning to understand life, for instance, through action rather than reaction. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation,Facing Life|3188	 The purified, integrated mind, so perfected in its own understanding, lives in close communion with the soul radiance so that light becomes the constant experience of the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3189	Living in the light, everything that formerly was hidden becomes revealed. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3190	Answers to questions that you had been pondering for many years become instantaneously unraveled in the light of the superconscious.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3192	Doubt is the by-product of the intellect’s inability to cope with light. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3193	When a person depends upon memory or reason for meaningful answers, the mind will break down in doubt.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3194	 Only when the higher elucidation of the intuition is sought is doubt dispelled. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3195	When a person depends upon memory or reason for meaningful answers, the mind will break down in doubt. Only when the higher elucidation of the intuition is sought is doubt dispelled. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3196	When the instinctive mind becomes lifted into the light, a person is strong enough to be kind when he could have become angry. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3198	Disciplined periods of meditation nurture a magnanimous and benevolent nature. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation,Sadhana,Facing Life|3200	Humility makes one immune to resentment and places everything in proportion and balance within the mind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3201	A person lacking in humility does not give the appearance of being firmly rooted and poised within himself. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3203	Seeking for God in the depths of one’s being through control of the mind, control of one’s thoughts, feelings and emotions, gives birth to the highest qualities of nature. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation,Facing Life,Siva|3205	The spiritual path is a constant turning within, turning the light of the superconscious into the dark corners and recesses of the mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3206	“What is hidden shall be revealed,” and so it is on this path as man reveals his Self to himself.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation,The Self|3207	As you sit in meditation in a darkened room, practice directing your consciousness inward, to the center of your brain.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3208	 If you are able to perceive light within your body, you are on the path to immortality. But should darkness prevail, work diligently each day to clear out resentment, jealousy, fear, worry and doubt from your nature.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3209	As you sit in meditation in a darkened room, practice directing your consciousness inward, to the center of your brain. If you are able to perceive light within your body, you are on the path to immortality.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3211	The next time you are in a state of worldliness—jealous, angry or feeling sorry for yourself—sit down and seek for the light. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3212	Dharma is a rich word which encompasses many meanings: the path to God Śiva, piety, goodness, duty, obligation and more.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Facing Life|3213	A mother’s place is within the home and not out in the world working. When she is in the home all day, she brings love and security to the children, sensitivity and stability to the husband.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Facing Life,Wisdom|3214	The mother is the child’s first guru, and she alone can shape the mind in those impressionable years.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Facing Life,Wisdom|3217	Religion begins in the home under the mother’s influence and instruction.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Facing Life,Wisdom|3219	. It is the mother who protects her children from negative influences, guiding their young minds into positive channels of expression. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/98	Facing Life,Wisdom|3221	From the point of view of the Second World, or astral plane, the home is the family temple, and the wife and mother is in charge of that spiritual environment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Facing Life,Wisdom|3222	In the home, the mother is likened to the Śakti Deity. She is the power, the very soul of the home. None other.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Facing Life,Wisdom|3224	As long as the mother is home, everything is fine. There is security. Without this security, a family begins to disintegrate.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Facing Life,Wisdom|3225	The Hindu woman knows that she is born in a woman’s body to fulfill a woman’s dharma, to perform her duty and not to emulate the men.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Facing Life,Wisdom|3226	The Hindu woman is trained to perform her strī dharma from the time she is a little girl.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Facing Life,Wisdom|3227	There are so many ways for a Hindu wife and mother to fully use her creative energies, including being creative enough to never let her life become boring. It is her special blessing that she is free to pursue her religion fully, to study the scriptures, to sing bhajana and keep her own spiritual life strong inside. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Facing Life,Wisdom|3228	Tradition, with its spoken and unspoken ways, is far too precious to throw out or tear down. The unwritten laws and customs of tradition are what has developed and proved out to be best for the peoples on this planet for centuries. We cannot casually change tradition. It takes centuries to build a tradition.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/102	Wisdom,Facing Life|3229	Marriage is an institution, a business, a spiritual partnership, a furtherance of humanity and a contract—a three-level contract involving body, mind and emotion. Marriage is a necessary commitment not only for the continuation of the human race but also for the furtherance of each individual soul’s spiritual unfoldment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Facing Life,Wisdom|3231	Śaivite marriages involve not only the bride and groom but also their parents, their priest, guru, astrologer, relatives on both sides and the entire community. The feeling of responsibility to the community is ever present. The community’s feeling of responsibility to make each of its marriages work out well is also always present.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom|3233	The knowing that each one has come into life to work out certain karmas they brought with them in this birth, and that karmas are generally worked out through other people, gives a challenge and a goal—to resolve these karmas and receive the reward of mukti, freedom from rebirth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Karma,Facing Life|3235	In fulfilling his purusha dharma, the husband gives his prāṇa, love and loyalty to his family, and he benefits the community through his service. He never, ever raises his voice in the home; nor does he show anger in any way. He is the model for the entire family.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Facing Life,Wisdom|3236	 A Śaivite home is a karmic factory, a recycling of souls, a mill that grinds exceedingly fine the seed karmas of this and past lives. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Hinduism,Meditation,Facing Life,Karma|3237	Believing in reincarnation, the parents know that their relatives—and they themselves—will be born back into their family again and again to work out their unfinished karmas. A Śaivite home is a karmic factory, a recycling of souls, a mill that grinds exceedingly fine the seed karmas of this and past lives. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom,Karma|3241	 Everyone is on the path to perfection, and they are instinctively and superconsciously seeking out those who are capable and able to help them progress. Śaivites want this to happen within the home itself, and hence welcome the involvement of the guru, the swāmīs and the entire community.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Hinduism,Facing Life,Wisdom,Guru|3242	Because people are human, differences arise. If everyone were the same, humanity would be called a herd, with the instinctive nature the predominant functioning intelligence.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/living-with-siva/106	Facing Life|3243	Take away the mental pictures, and the light alone is before you.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3244	You will learn to consciously use the inner eye to see with as you spiritually unfold. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3246	Here is a technique for learning to see the inner light. Open your eyes while seated in meditation. Follow the rays of light coming into your eyes and into your head until they are complemented with inner light rays.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3247	Contemplate light in the external world. Now close your eyes and look for inner light rays within your head. If you don’t find them, open your eyes again and let a few rays in, so to speak. Close your eyes again and look.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3248	The inner light is so beautiful. It is firm, like a plasma. It is sometimes fibrous and full of energy. And yet, it is quiet and full of colors.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3249	 You can hear sound and see color all at the same time, and you have the faculty to turn hearing on and to turn hearing off, because you hear with an inner ear.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation|3250	When you listen to people talking, you begin to know exactly what they are meaning because of your listening through your inner ear. When you look at people, you know exactly where they are in consciousness, because you are looking at them with your inner eye.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation,Facing Life|3251	Another instinctive response to the ebb and flow of life force is disappointment, which intensified becomes discouragement, depression and despair.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3253	Life tests and retests our emotional maturity. Whether we meet those tests or fail is entirely up to us.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Karma|3254	On the Śaivite path, the sat­guru gives the tests in order to mold and strengthen the seeker’s character. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Hinduism,Guru,Facing Life|3255	Great strength of character is required to attain spiritual goals, enormous courage and forbearance, and anyone who lacks that strength and stamina will cease striving long before full realization is attained. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3256	As the tests of life present themselves, the sat­guru will observe the seeker’s response time and time again until his emotional body grows strong enough to combat negative reaction to what appears to be failure and later to absorb within itself all reaction to disappointment, the father of discouragement.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Guru,Facing Life,Karma|3257	It is the day-to-day reactions to circumstance that indicate the attainment and not mere recorded knowledge about the path. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Karma|3258	When the aspirant is able to meet ordinary happenings and respond to them in the effortless wisdom born of detachment, that indicates that his striving is genuine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Karma|3259	t is the day-to-day reactions to circumstance that indicate the attainment and not mere recorded knowledge about the path. When the aspirant is able to meet ordinary happenings and respond to them in the effortless wisdom born of detachment, that indicates that his striving is genuine.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Karma|3260	 It is quite natural to encounter circumstances that are potential sources of disappointment. The very recognition and admission are half of the necessary adjustments.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Karma|3261	As one set of conditions is resolved, another set of a more intense vibration arises naturally to be mastered. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Karma,Facing Life|3263	 With disappointment reined in, the aspirant next faces tendencies of discouragement, then depression and finally despair, for they are all linked together in the instinctive nature of humankind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3265	What is emotional maturity? It certainly is not to be equated with physical age. I know people who are well past middle life and are not yet emotionally mature. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3266	Even if the physical body is totally mature, the intellect, as well as the emotional unit, can remain childish and unstable. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3267	The mind may have been educated to the nth degree, and yet such a scholar remains vulnerable to depression and discouragement. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3268	The very first step toward emotional mastery is recognition coupled with admission that in some areas we are not yet perfect. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3269	Only through open admission can we devote ourselves to the sādhana that will balance and lessen the forces, allowing us to strive within ourselves to secure ourselves within ourselves. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Sadhana|3270	An emotionally mature man or woman is totally secure within and prepared to tap the greater realms of spiritual being.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3271	We make very little progress when we strive to conquer these baser instincts in a good mood. However, vast strides are possible when we are miserable and work with ourselves to replace our misery with joy and understanding. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Sadhana,Meditation|3272	Often we are disappointed not only with ourselves and our circumstances but with other people as well. We can oversee this and other instinctive responses, such as mental criticism or jealousy, by looking at everyone and saying to ourselves, “I like you. I send you blessings.”	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3273	We cannot be discouraged or disappointed or jealous when we look our fellow man in the eye and say and simultaneously feel and believe through every atom of our being, “I like you. I send you blessings.” Impossible! 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3274	Love overcomes all instinctive barriers between people.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3275	 I’ve seen people with twenty-two-year-old bodies with the wisdom of an eighty-year old and the emotional stability of a forty-year old. I’ve seen people walking around in a sixty-year-old body with a twelve-year-old emotional body.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3276	By learning to understand, we cease to be a personality leaning upon our fellow man and falling into disappointment when he lets us down. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Wisdom,Facing Life|3278	Love is the source of understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3279	The absence of love has created a vacuum of understanding.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3280	For the meditating person, there should not be a single human being whose actions, habits, opinions or conduct lies beyond your ability to love and understand. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation,Facing Life|3281	This week look at everyone you meet, and feel, from your fingertips right down to your toes, love welling up from your deepest resources and radiating out to them through every cell of your body and especially through your face.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3283	 We do not love the flower and hate the muddy roots from which it grew, and we cannot hate the instinctive roots of mankind.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Wisdom|3284	With understanding, a great thing happens—your life becomes even, balanced and sublime. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3285	 When emotional ups and downs are allowed, what happens? Your poor nerve system is terribly strained in a constant state of frenzy and uncertainty. All of your energies are then devoted to coping with yourself, and not much is reserved to accomplish creative, productive projects.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3286	As your life evens out by using the great power of understanding, the emotional self of you heals and grows strong.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3287	Your nervous system, believe it or not, grows, and it grows strong if you feed it correctly by handling your mind. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3288	Understanding is the best nourishment for the emotional body. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3289	Understanding, loving and making allowances—these are the strengths of the soul awakened through sādhana, once the emotional ups and downs and the barriers of the instinctive influences of fear, jealousy, anger, deceit and disappointment are conquered. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Sadhana|3290	All of the mysteries of life will unfold before your inner vision once the instinctive mind is mastered in your life.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3291	Have the courage to admit when you are right or the courage to admit when you are wrong.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3293	The life force within you is pure spirit.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Siva|3296	Mentally look back at the various states of mind through which you have passed.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3297	Each city and each state has its personality and its experience, and each state of mind through which consciousness has passed has its personality, too, and its experiences. And yet, that You is always the same—the You that lives a little bit behind the conscious mind in which you dwell each day. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,The Self|3298	Work for the sake of work if you have to work on Friday or Monday, dedicating the fruits of your labor to the highest within you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3299	Pray on Friday or Monday and dedicate the fruits of your prayers to the highest within you. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3300	That is what the expanded consciousness brings you into, your intuitive mind, your intuitive, superconscious mind, which is much nearer to you than you think.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3301	The only barriers are the confusion of the subconscious and the state of mind which continues that confusion by not following spiritual principles.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3302	The yoga break is a break in time in which one may penetrate the eternity of the moment.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Meditation,Facing Life|3303	If you find yourself nervous, upset, confused, drained of energy, lie down on the nearest flat, hard surface, not a bed or sofa, for they will not offer the proper support to your spine. Stretch out, preferably on the floor, take a deep breath and command your body and your mind to relax, to release, to let go of all thoughts and tensions of the moment. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3304	Visualize a powerful light flooding into your solar plexus as you breathe in, charging all the batteries of the nervous system, filling your body and mind with energy and positive will.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3305	The yoga break gives perspective in the middle of the busy day, when your mind tends to become tensely narrowed by details. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life,Meditation|3306	People who live under tension all of the time are like a machine. They are a product of the material world. Only when they release that tension may they become creative again, products of the soul.	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life|3307	In a relaxed state, happiness is found, and the qualities of the soul shine forth. 	Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami		http://www.himalayanacademy.com/book/merging-with-siva/63	Facing Life